Sebastian and Claude row a boat to a remote island , while Hannah holds Ciel 's body . Sebastian and Claude are to duel as demons in a grudge match to see which one will have the right to claim Ciel 's soul . After having removed the demon sword from her body , Hannah places it on the ceiling in a cave , thus beginning the duel . Neither butler manages to make a fatal blow during the battle , after passing the sword back and forth it appears to be a stalemate . Sebastian uses the sword to split the island in half creating a large fissure in the ground . In limbo , Ciel says Alois would never understand what motivates Sebastian to fight . Claude loses his balance after landing on a rock that gives way under him , and Sebastian plunges the demon sword through Claude 's body . Sebastian comments that Claude failed to realize that Alois has been playing with him all along . Claude then replies that Alois was able to make his long life interesting , and consequently Alois 's soul was more precious than he thought . Alois concedes to Ciel and apologizes for what he has done before he fades away . Hannah sheds tears of joy and reveals that the contract Alois made with her was for Claude to acknowledge him . Hannah falls into the ocean below with Ciel in her arms , urging Sebastian to dive in and reach Ciel , only to kill him just as he awakens . Meanwhile , Hannah relocates herself back on the island lying down with Claude 's body , reuniting them with Alois and Luka altogether again . Some time later , Ciel awakens in bed with Sebastian preparing him `` New Moon Drop '' tea ; however , it 's shown that he 's only going through the motions , as the teapot and cups are empty . Ciel sends farewell gifts to everyone he knew , dismisses his servants leaving them in charge of the mansion , and leaves with Sebastian . It is revealed that as a condition of Alois 's wish being fulfilled , Alois asked that Hannah makes Ciel 's soul unattainable by either Sebastain or Claude . She did this by causing Ciel to be reborn as a demon . As a result , Sebastian can not consume Ciel 's soul , yet is still bound by their contract . Sebastian later carries Ciel through a field of black and white roses towards a cliff . Ciel says that he 's forever blessed to have Sebastian as his butler , as Sebastian responds that he is forever bound to serve `` a fellow fiend of Hell '' . Ciel remarks that the butler has but one answer to give . Sebastian affirms his service to his master while jumping with him from the cliff into the depths of the underworld .