The p -- V diagram is a simplified and idealised representation of the events involved in a Diesel engine cycle , arranged to illustrate the similarity with a Carnot cycle . Starting at 1 , the piston is at bottom dead centre and both valves are closed at the start of the compression stroke ; the cylinder contains air at atmospheric pressure . Between 1 and 2 the air is compressed adiabatically -- that is without heat transfer to or from the environment -- by the rising piston . ( This is only approximately true since there will be some heat exchange with the cylinder walls . ) During this compression , the volume is reduced , the pressure and temperature both rise . At or slightly before 2 ( TDC ) fuel is injected and burns in the compressed hot air . Chemical energy is released and this constitutes an injection of thermal energy ( heat ) into the compressed gas . Combustion and heating occur between 2 and 3 . In this interval the pressure remains constant since the piston descends , and the volume increases ; the temperature rises as a consequence of the energy of combustion . At 3 fuel injection and combustion are complete , and the cylinder contains gas at a higher temperature than at 2 . Between 3 and 4 this hot gas expands , again approximately adiabatically . Work is done on the system to which the engine is connected . During this expansion phase the volume of the gas rises , and its temperature and pressure both fall . At 4 the exhaust valve opens , and the pressure falls abruptly to atmospheric ( approximately ) . This is unresisted expansion and no useful work is done by it . Ideally the adiabatic expansion should continue , extending the line 3 -- 4 to the right until the pressure falls to that of the surrounding air , but the loss of efficiency caused by this unresisted expansion is justified by the practical difficulties involved in recovering it ( the engine would have to be much larger ) . After the opening of the exhaust valve , the exhaust stroke follows , but this ( and the following induction stroke ) are not shown on the diagram . If shown , they would be represented by a low - pressure loop at the bottom of the diagram . At 1 it is assumed that the exhaust and induction strokes have been completed , and the cylinder is again filled with air . The piston - cylinder system absorbs energy between 1 and 2 -- this is the work needed to compress the air in the cylinder , and is provided by mechanical kinetic energy stored in the flywheel of the engine . Work output is done by the piston - cylinder combination between 2 and 4 . The difference between these two increments of work is the indicated work output per cycle , and is represented by the area enclosed by the p -- V loop . The adiabatic expansion is in a higher pressure range than that of the compression because the gas in the cylinder is hotter during expansion than during compression . It is for this reason that the loop has a finite area , and the net output of work during a cycle is positive .