King Louie - The orangutan who leads the Bandar - log . In the 2016 film , he is a Gigantopithecus . He is voiced by Louis Prima in the first movie , Jim Cummings in TaleSpin , Jason Marsden in Season One of Jungle Cubs , Cree Summer in Season Two of Jungle Cubs , and Christopher Walken in the 2016 film . Winifred - Colonel Hathi 's wife and the mother of Hathi Jr. who serves as Hathi 's second - in - command of the Jungle Patrol . She is voiced by Verna Felton in the first movie and by Kath Soucie in `` Jungle Cubs . '' Hathi Jr . - The baby elephant who is the son of Hathi and Winifred and is a good friend of Mowgli . He is voiced by Clint Howard in the first movie and by Jimmy Bennett in The Jungle Book 2 . Flunkey - King Louie 's monkey servant and right hand - man . He is voiced by Leo De Lyon in the first film and by Jim Cummings in The Jungle Book 2 . Buzzie , Dizzy , Flaps , and Ziggy the Vultures - They are four vultures who closely resemble the Beatles because of their shaggy moptop haircuts and Liverpool accents . Buzzie resembles Ringo Starr , Dizzy resembles George Harrison , Flaps resembles Paul McCartney , and Ziggy resembles John Lennon . Their song `` That 's What Friends Are For '' was sung in the style of a barbershop quartet instead of a Beatles song . Disney was originally going to have The Beatles voice them , but John Lennon refused the offer . Buzzie was voiced by J. Pat O'Malley in the first film and by Jim Cummings in The Jungle Book 2 . Dizzy is voiced by Lord Tim Hudson in the first film and by Baron Davis in The Jungle Book 2 . Flaps is voiced by Chad Stuart in the first film and by Jeff Bennett in The Jungle Book 2 . Ziggy is voiced by Digby Wolfe in the first film and by Jess Harnell in The Jungle Book 2 . Shanti ( named only in The Jungle Book 2 ) - The girl whose song `` My Own Home '' lured Mowgli into the Man Village in the 1967 film . Shanti later serves as his closest human friend / love interest in the sequel . Shanti is voiced by Darleen Carr in the first film and by Mae Whitman in The Jungle Book 2 . Ranjan ( The Jungle Book 2 ) - Mowgli 's adopted younger brother . He is depicted as the son of Messua and her husband . Ranjan is voiced by Connor Funk . Lucky ( The Jungle Book 2 ) - The vultures ' friend who loves teasing Shere Kahn as seen in The Jungle Book 2 . He is voiced by Phil Collins . Rocky the Rhino - Rocky is an Indian rhinoceros . In the earlier production of the first film , Rocky was to appear in the same scene as the Vultures where he would 've been voiced by Frank Fontaine . Unfortunately , his part got scrapped . Rocky did appear in the 2016 film voiced by Russell Peters where he was among the animals observing the Water Truce . After telling Mowgli to watch himself after being backed into him upon being accidentally pricked by Ikki 's quills , Rocky tells Raquel that Mowgli is a man - cub . Raquel the Rhino ( 2016 film ) - The daughter of Rocky the Rhino . She is voiced by Madeleine Favreau . Fred the Pygmy Hog ( 2016 film ) - A pygmy hog who is one of the neighbors and friends of Baloo . He was voiced by Jon Favreau . Giant Squirrel ( 2016 film ) - An Indian giant squirrel who is one of the neighbors and friends of Baloo . The Giant Squirrel was the one who supported Baloo 's claim to Mowgli that the honey works to soothe the bee stings . He was voiced by Sam Raimi . Pangolin ( 2016 film ) - An Indian pangolin who is one of the neighbors and friends of Baloo . No voice actor was credited for this role .