Throughout the range , small rodents form the great majority of great horned owl prey by number . Weighing a mere 14 to 31.5 g ( 0.49 to 1.11 oz ) and 20 to 58 g ( 0.71 to 2.05 oz ) on average , the nine species of New World mice in Peromyscus and eight species voles in Microtus recorded in the diet would appear to be overly small to be as important as they are to a predatory bird of this size . The prominence of these genera is undoubtedly due to the abundance of both genera in the wooded edge habitats frequented by great horned owls . It is estimated that a family of owls with two offspring would need to take about a half dozen ( voles ) to a dozen ( mice ) of these rodents every night to satisfy their dietary requirements but apparently the accessibility and abundance of these foods is irresistible as their numeric dominance is indisputable . In 14 studies accumulated for comparison from across North America , Microtus and Peromyscus were each the most numerous prey in 5 of the studies ( together 10 out of 14 ) . By winter in areas that hold heavy snow , Peromyscus mice often come to outnumber the voles in the diet since the mice tend to travel over the surface of the snow while the voles make tunnels underneath the snow . Other owls , most notably the great grey owl , habitually crash into the surface of the snow to access voles in their tunnels , a habit only rarely recorded in great horned owls presumably due to its less refined hearing . Notably , the house mouse ( Mus musculus ) , of about as the same size as the Peromyscus ssp. , although taken readily when available , is a relatively minor aspect of the diet as they tend to live much closer to human development than the owls do . Brown rats , despite a similar association with humans and their habitat alterations , also occasionally settle along the fringes of farm fields and meadows and hold much more dietary significance than the house mouse , i.e. the rats were seven times more abundant in pellets from the Upper Midwest . In fact , a healthy family of great horned owls can decimate a colony of field rats , thus potentially performing a key role in controlling a highly destructive pest . In 2134 pellets collected from 17 counties in Pennsylvania , the brown rat was the most common prey species by number , making up to 24 % . Great horned owls living in the timbered fringes of garbage or refuse dumps may subsist mostly on rats .