Hermann von Helmholtz : Discovered the principle of conservation of energy . Peter Henlein : Inventor of the portable watch . Friedrich Wilhelm Herschel ( William Herschel ) : Discovered the planet Uranus and infrared radiation among other things . Heinrich Hertz : Physicist , Discoverer of electromagnetic / radio waves . Otto Herzog : First use of the Carabiner in mountain climbing which substantially enhanced security for mountaineers . Victor Francis Hess : Discovered Cosmic rays . Also won the Nobel Prize . David Hilbert : Influential mathematician who discovered and developed a broad range of fundamental ideas in math . Albert Hofmann : German - Swiss ; Discovered the chemical properties of chitin and lysergic acid diethylamide . Wilhelm Hofmeister : Discovery of the Alternation of generations Felix Hoffmann : Isolated acetylsalicylic acid , a painkiller marketed under the name Aspirin ( Bayer ) , 1897 . In some English speaking countries marketed under the name disprin . Herman Hollerith : a German American statistician who developed a mechanical tabulator based on punched cards Gottlob Honold : Inventor of the spark plug and the modern internal combustion engine , as well as headlights . Horten brothers : Designed some of the most advanced aircraft of the 1930s and ' 40s , including the world 's first jet - powered flying wing , the Horten Ho 229 . Christian Hülsmeyer : German inventor of the Telemobilskop , a radio - based detector of remote objects ; a 1904 precursor of radar . Alexander von Humboldt : Naturalist and explorer . His quantitative work on botanical geography was foundational to the field of biogeography . Wilhelm von Humboldt : Originator of the linguistic relativity hypothesis . Erich Huzenlaub : Huzenlaub Process for parboiling Johannes Heidenhain : Invented the Metallur process . This lead - sulfide copying process made it possible for the first time to make exact copies of an original grating on a metal surface for industrial use . By 1943 , Heidenhain was producing linear scales with accuracy of ± 15 μm and circular scale disks with accuracy of ± 3 angular seconds . Karl Andreas Hofmann : German inorganic chemist who is best known for his discovery of a family of clathrates which consist of a 2 - D metal cyanide sheet , with every second metal also bound axially to two other ligands . These materials have been named ' Hofmann clathrates ' in his honour .