No . Title Original air date `` The Dark Dream Begins '' `` Kuroki Yume no Hajimari '' ( 黒き 夢 の はじまり ) August 28 , 2016 Elizabeth Liones goes to the Boar Hat , where all her friends are still asleep following the festival . After Elizabeth is greeted by Hawk outside , Meliodas introduces her to a meat pie made with vegetables that looks like Hawk , but it turns out to be unfit for human consumption . Meliodas has the idea of using pork as the main ingredient , which causes Hawk to make haste out of the bar . Meliodas comes up with a contest for his friends , in which he will obey any order for a day from whoever catches Hawk first . However , Hawk manages to outsmart them due to his small size . Hawk returns to the Boar Hat and eats food scraps made by Ban , who is declared the winner as a result . At night , Meliodas takes Elizabeth back to the palace while also assuring that his purpose in life is to protect her . Meliodas then goes to the catacombs to see the Horn of Cernunnos . When the goddess vessel taunts him for his reputation as a demon , Meliodas destroys the Horn of Cernunnos in retaliation . `` Our Fighting Festival '' `` Futari no Ken'ka Matsuri '' ( 二 人 の 喧嘩 祭り ) September 4 , 2016 Ban walks up to a mountaintop to finally settle matters with Meliodas , but the former is surprised to see Elizabeth and Hawk as well as the other members of the Seven Deadly Sins and the Holy Knights as part of an audience . Merlin casts a gigantic cubic barrier around Meliodas and Ban in order for the spectators to safely watch the fight . Meanwhile , King and Hauser have their own fight to win the attention of Diane . Ban initiates a brutal attack on Meliodas that somehow weakens most of the spectators . The fight ends in a stalemate after the two of them exchange rapid punches that cause the barrier to break . They remain friends and head back down to the Boar Hat for a drink . `` In Pursuit of First Love '' `` Hatsukoi o Oikakete '' ( 初恋 を 追いかけ て ) September 11 , 2016 King still hesitates to confess his feelings for Diane . Meanwhile , Diane leaves the Boar Hat and heads to a construction site in town , recalling the devastating collateral damage she caused due to her immense size . The construction workers there apologize to her and thank her for saving the kingdom . When King comes to see Diane , the two decide to play a game of tag across town . Outside a church , a wedding ceremony is interrupted by a demon , in which Diane and King combine their skills in defeating the demon . King asks Diane if she regained her memories , and she answers him with a kiss on his cheek . The moment is ruined when a brick suddenly falls on his head , and he later wakes up next to her , having forgotten what they did during the day . `` The Shape of Love '' `` Ai no Katachi '' ( 愛 の かたち ) September 18 , 2016 Merlin agrees to be a waitress at the Boar Hat , but first she wants Meliodas and Gowther to follow Gilthunder to find out if he is being stalked by someone . Meanwhile , Gilthunder , Hauser and Griamore are each hit with falling debris in the streets , unaware of the situation . Gowther is distracted by a boy named Pelliot , who asks him to retrieve a fat cat off a roof . Since Gowther reminds Pelliot of his mother , who recently passed away , Gowther transforms into Pelliot 's mother for a moment and disappears when Pelliot 's father finds Pelliot . Meliodas finds Gilthunder , Hauser and Griamore at a restaurant , where he purposely spills coffee to expose Vivian , revealed as the stalker . Merlin punishes Vivian by planting a cursed ring on her finger , which will bring pain to her each time the curse is activated , and Merlin explains that the Ten Commandments are the highest class in the demon race . At the Boar Hat , Merlin quits her job as a waitress , while Hawk and Gowther fill in for the position , much to the guys ' dismay .