Egypt , Israel , Jordan and the representatives of the Palestinian people should participate in negotiations on the resolution of the Palestinian problem in all its aspects . ( 1 . ) Egypt and Israel agree that , in order to ensure a peaceful and orderly transfer of authority , and taking into account the security concerns of all the parties , there should be transitional arrangements for the West Bank and Gaza for a period not exceeding five years . In order to provide full autonomy to the inhabitants , under these arrangements the Israeli military government and its civilian administration will be withdrawn as soon as a self - governing authority has been freely elected by the inhabitants of these areas to replace the existing military government . ( 2 . ) Egypt , Israel , and Jordan will agree on the modalities for establishing elected self - governing authority in the West Bank and Gaza . The delegations of Egypt and Jordan may include Palestinians from the West Bank and Gaza or other Palestinians as mutually agreed . The parties will negotiate an agreement which will define the powers and responsibilities of the self - governing authority to be exercised in the West Bank and Gaza . A withdrawal of Israeli armed forces will take place and there will be a redeployment of the remaining Israeli forces into specified security locations . The agreement will also include arrangements for assuring internal and external security and public order . A strong local police force will be established , which may include Jordanian citizens . In addition , Israeli and Jordanian forces will participate in joint patrols and in the manning of control posts to assure the security of the borders . ( 3 . ) When the self - governing authority ( administrative council ) in the West Bank and Gaza is established and inaugurated , the transitional period of five years will begin . As soon as possible , but not later than the third year after the beginning of the transitional period , negotiations will take place to determine the final status of the West Bank and Gaza and its relationship with its neighbors and to conclude a peace treaty between Israel and Jordan by the end of the transitional period . These negotiations will be conducted among Egypt , Israel , Jordan and the elected representatives of the inhabitants of the West Bank and Gaza ... The negotiations shall be based on all the provisions and principles of UN Security Council Resolution 242 . The negotiations will resolve , among other matters , the location of the boundaries and the nature of the security arrangements . The solution from the negotiations must also recognize the legitimate right of the Palestinian peoples and their just requirements .