The Ogakor beach was overcome with smoke and haze from the impending forest fire . Kucha moved their fire after ash was jumping from the fire into their sleeping area , burning through one of Jeff Varner 's shirts . However , moving the fire made sleeping at night much harder . Michael told Kimmi to stop being so involved with the chickens , but she did n't listen and still got upset and made a scene when they wanted to kill another one . On the other hand , hunger started to set in at Ogakor . Jerri and Keith once again argued about where to dump the fish guts . At Kucha , Kimmi argued with Alicia about eating another chicken , which led to a verbal tussle in front of the entire tribe . Kimmi found Alicia to be very condescending and Alicia continued to get more irritated and impatient . After the fight , Kimmi started complaining about everything . Reward challenge : Each tribe must build a stretcher . At the challenge , two tribe members ( the rescuers ) must go rescue the remaining three members ( the victims ) scattered around the course and bring them back to the triage unit . Once the victim is back to the start , they become a rescuer and go with the others to get the next victim . The winning tribe receives two items chosen from the Survivor catalog by each tribe , plus toothpaste , toothbrushes , deodorant , and shampoo . At tree mail , the tribes were given a catalog and were instructed to pick 2 things they could win in addition to the reward . Kucha chose blankets and spices , while Ogakor chose spices and soup mix . They were told at the challenge that the winner would take both tribes ' choices . Ogakor took an early lead , but Kucha caught up during the second leg and pulled ahead during the final leg , winning their fourth straight challenge . Ogakor became very frustrated at losing , especially Colby and Amber . Meanwhile , spirits were at an all - time high over at Kucha . Immunity challenge : Each maze has 5 totem poles with a medallion attached to each . As a unit , they must maneuver through the maze and collect the medallions in order , then find their way to the finish line . At the immunity challenge , the tribes were pretty even through two medallions , but Ogakor pulled ahead to win immunity . Alicia discussed voting off Kimmi for their personal issues , but Rodger and Elisabeth entertained the idea of voting Alicia off instead . The tribe discussed leadership at Tribal Council . After the vote , Jeff Varner received another vote but it was Kimmi who was voted off .