No . overall No. in series Title Directed by Written by Original air date UK viewers ( millions ) 6 `` Lane '' Jan Matthys Tony Grounds 7 September 2016 ( 2016 - 09 - 07 ) 6.23 Lance Corporal Georgie Lane , an experienced army medic , joins Captain James and 2 Section on a humanitarian tour of Kenya . Despite being desperate to return home to marry her fiance , Dr Jamie Cole , Georgie jumps straight into action when an IED attack on a refugee camp on the border of Somalia results in multiple casualties . Georgie meets aid worker Kicki , who runs a charity hospital across the border . When Kicki is later kidnapped by a terrorist group , Georgie 's determination to find her lands her in great danger . 7 `` Going On '' Jan Matthys Tony Grounds 14 September 2016 ( 2016 - 09 - 14 ) 6.23 Having been taken hostage by the terrorist group , Georgie finally learns of Kicki 's whereabouts . Captain James requests help from a special forces unit to storm the base where Georgie is being held , but is shocked to discover that Elvis is leading the operation . Georgie tries to make an ally out of kindlier Zeki under the nose of her captors , but her plan backfires , leading her into grave danger . With the help of 2 Section , Elvis ' unit mount an attack on the base and manage to bring Georgie to safety , but Kicki is n't so fortunate . 8 `` Look Now '' Jan Matthys Tony Grounds 21 September 2016 ( 2016 - 09 - 21 ) 6.06 Georgie identifies members of the Al Shabad cell , which allows Special Forces to co-ordinate an air strike on their suspected holding ground . Captain James announces that 2 Section have been granted two days rest before returning home to Britain , but during a beach party , a robbery in a nearby hotel turns into a shootout , forcing Elvis to take dramatic action . An exhausted Georgie ca n't wait to get home to see her family and fiancė Jamie , but unable to hide his feelings any longer , a desperate Elvis is forced to come clean . 9 `` Ready '' Luke Snellin Tony Grounds 28 September 2016 ( 2016 - 09 - 28 ) 5.79 Georgie continues to make plans for her wedding , but is surprised when Elvis summons her to a private meeting in Whitehall with Special Branch . Intel suggests that radical convert Abu escaped the air strike in Kenya and has re-entered the country on a false passport . As Jamie begins to grow increasingly concerned about Georgie 's welfare , he seeks out Captain James for advice . Elvis and his unit are called to assist when intel suggests that Abu and his associates are to carry out a series of co-ordinated attacks across Manchester . 10 5 `` Afterwards '' Luke Snellin Tony Grounds 5 October 2016 ( 2016 - 10 - 05 ) 6.03 Georgie and Jamie prepare for their big day , but Georgie is n't able to extinguish the thought of Abu still being free to roam the streets . Georgie decides to contact his ex-girlfriend Saira , in the hope of obtaining information that could lead to his capture . Elvis persuades Georgie that Abu will target her wedding ceremony , forcing her to postpone the wedding until the following day . But just as she prepares to walk down the aisle , Georgie realises who the real target is , and with the help of Elvis , sets about bringing Abu to justice .