The title sequence uses closeups of the letters in the Stranger Things title with a red tint against a black background as they slide into place within the title . The sequence was created by the studio Imaginary Forces , formerly part of R / GA , led by creative director Michelle Doughtey . Levy introduced the studio to the Duffer Brothers , who explained their vision of the 1980s - inspired show , which helped the studio to fix the concept the producers wanted . Later , but prior to filming , the producers sent Imaginary Forces the pilot script , the synth - heavy background music for the titles , as well as the various book covers from King and other authors that they had used to establish the title and imagery , and were looking for a similar approach for the show 's titles , primarily using a typographical sequence . They took inspiration from several title sequences of works from the 1980s that were previously designed by Richard Greenberg under R / GA , such as Altered States and The Dead Zone . They also got input from Dan Perri , who worked on the title credits of several 1980s films . Various iterations included having letters vanish , to reflect the `` missing '' theme of the show , and having letters cast shadows on others , alluding to the mysteries , before settling into the sliding letters . The studio began working on the title sequence before filming , and took about a month off during the filming process to let the producers get immersed in the show and come back with more input . Initially they had been working with various fonts for the title and used close - ups of the best features of these fonts , but near the end the producers wanted to work with ITC Benguiat , requiring them to rework those shots . The final sequence is fully computer generated , but they took inspiration from testing some practical effects , such as using Kodalith masks as would have been done in the 1980s , to develop the appropriate filters for the rendering software . The individual episode title cards used a `` fly through '' approach , similar to the film Bullitt , which the producers had suggested to the studio .