Today historians generally agree that an invasion and temporary seizure of Canada was the central American military strategy once the war began . Given British control of the oceans , there was no other way to actively fight against British interests . President Madison believed that food supplies from Canada were essential to the British overseas empire in the West Indies , and that an American seizure would be an excellent bargaining chip at the peace conference . During the war , some Americans speculated that they might as well keep all of Canada . Thomas Jefferson , for example , although now out of power , argued that expulsion of British interests from nearby Canada would remove a long - term threat to American republicanism . New Zealand historian J.G.A. Stagg argues that Madison and his advisors believed that conquest of Canada would be easy and that economic coercion would force the British to come to terms by cutting off the food supply for their highly valuable West Indies sugar colonies . Furthermore , possession of Canada would be a valuable bargaining chip . Stagg suggests frontiersmen demanded the seizure of Canada not because they wanted the land ( they had plenty ) , but because the British were thought to be arming the Indians and thereby blocking settlement of the west . As Horsman concludes , `` The idea of conquering Canada had been present since at least 1807 as a means of forcing England to change her policy at sea . The conquest of Canada was primarily a means of waging war , not a reason for starting it . '' Hickey flatly states , `` The desire to annex Canada did not bring on the war . '' Brown ( 1964 ) concludes , `` The purpose of the Canadian expedition was to serve negotiation not to annex Canada . '' Burt , a Canadian scholar , but also a professor at an American university , agrees completely , noting that Foster , the British minister to Washington , also rejected the argument that annexation of Canada was a war goal . However , Foster also rejected the possibility of a declaration of war , despite having dinner with several of the more prominent War Hawks , so his judgement in these matters can be questioned .