No . Title Directed by Written by Original release date `` The Vulcan Hello '' David Semel Story by : Bryan Fuller & Alex Kurtzman Teleplay by : Akiva Goldsman & Bryan Fuller September 24 , 2017 ( 2017 - 09 - 24 ) Investigating a damaged satellite near a binary star system on the edge of Federation space , the crew members of the USS Shenzhou discover an object obscured from their sensors . After First Officer Michael Burnham volunteers to investigate the object , she finds an ancient , carved vessel . She is attacked by a Klingon , and when trying to escape , she accidentally kills him . A group of Klingons mourn the death of their soldier , dubbed the `` Torchbearer '' , before the outcast Voq volunteers to take his place . The Klingons , led by T'Kuvma , reveal themselves in a cloakable ship . T'Kuvma preaches to his followers of the Federation 's attempts to usurp the individuality of the Klingons and their culture , and plans to fulfill an ancient prophecy by uniting the 24 great Klingon houses as was once done by Kahless . Voq activates a beacon that summons the Klingon leaders . Burnham , desperate to prevent a war , attempts to fire on the Klingons first , against the wishes of Captain Philippa Georgiou . Burnham is arrested for mutiny . `` Battle at the Binary Stars '' Adam Kane Story by : Bryan Fuller Teleplay by : Gretchen J. Berg & Aaron Harberts September 24 , 2017 ( 2017 - 09 - 24 ) T'Kuvma convinces the majority of the Klingon leaders that he can lead them to victory over the Federation , as reinforcements for the Shenzhou arrive . Georgiou offers to resolve the situation peacefully , but the Klingons immediately open fire . Starfleet Admiral Anderson arrives and again offers peace to the Klingons , but his ship is rammed by another cloaked Klingon vessel . Anderson has his ship self - destruct , destroying the Klingon ship as well . Starfleet retreats , leaving the Klingons to collect their dead . In the remains of the Shenzhou , Burnham escapes her cell after encouragement from her guardian Sarek via a telepathic connection . She convinces Georgiou to try to take T'Kuvma prisoner , and they create a distraction by sending an explosive into his ship with a Klingon corpse . Boarding the vessel , Burnham overpowers Voq . Georgiou attempts to capture T'Kuvma , but is killed . T'Kuvma is fatally shot by Burnham , who is transported to safety . Voq promises that T'Kuvma's legacy will live on . Burnham is later sentenced to life in prison for her mutiny . `` Context Is for Kings '' Akiva Goldsman Story by : Bryan Fuller & Gretchen J. Berg & Aaron Harberts Teleplay by : Gretchen J. Berg & Aaron Harberts & Craig Sweeny October 1 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 01 ) Six months into her sentence , Burnham is on an unexpected prison transfer when an emergency forces her shuttle to be rescued by the USS Discovery . Spending several days on the ship , Burnham is ordered by its captain , the mysterious Gabriel Lorca , to assist with a scientific assignment . Burnham overhears Lieutenant Paul Stamets , an astromycologist who is leading the assignment , discuss an upcoming experiment with a colleague serving on another starship ; Lorca is soon informed of an incident on the Discovery 's sister ship , the USS Glenn , that has killed the entire crew . Stamets leads a boarding party to investigate and finds the dead crew hideously twisted and malformed , as well as a group of Klingons killed by an unknown creature . Lorca later asks Burnham to work for him , despite her sentence , explaining that he organized the circumstances that led her to him so she could help develop a new spore - based propulsion system that could win the war she started by killing T'Kuvma . He also secretly has the creature transported aboard the Discovery . `` The Butcher 's Knife Cares Not for the Lamb 's Cry '' Olatunde Osunsanmi Jesse Alexander & Aron Eli Coleite October 8 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 08 ) Lorca assigns Burnham to study the creature from the Glenn , dubbed a Tardigrade , to find a way to use its biology as a weapon . Starfleet orders Discovery to the dilithium mining colony Corvan II , which is under Klingon attack . Stamets is reluctant to make such a long jump using the spores , and when the drive is activated the ship nearly collides with a star . Lorca sends Commander Landry to keep Burnham 's research on track , and she attempts to sedate the Tardigrade ( that she names Ripper ) to cut off its claw ; it kills her . Burnham believes that Ripper was acting in self - defense , and is drawn to the spores . Stamets and Burnham transport it to Engineering , where it connects to the spore drive and interfaces with the navigation system . The ship successfully makes the jump to Corvan II and saves the colony . On T'Kuvma's stranded ship , Klingon leader Kol earns the loyalty of T'Kuvma's desperate followers , and leaves Voq to die in the wreckage of the Shenzhou . L'Rell , secretly loyal to Voq , promises a way for them to win the war for the house of T'Kuvma . 5 `` Choose Your Pain '' Lee Rose Story by : Gretchen J. Berg & Aaron Harberts & Kemp Powers Teleplay by : Kemp Powers October 15 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 15 ) After a month of successful operations , Lorca is ordered to protect the spore drive until it can be replicated for other Starfleet ships . As he returns to the Discovery , Lorca is taken captive by the Klingons . Burnham has grown concerned with the toll that the drive has taken on Ripper . Along with Stamets ' partner , medical officer Hugh Culber , Burnham convinces Stamets to find an alternative to run the drive . Lorca is imprisoned with captured Starfleet officer Ash Tyler and human criminal Harry Mudd , and in discussions Lorca reveals that he killed his entire crew during an earlier battle to spare them from the Klingons ' torture , but escaped himself . Lorca is tortured by L'Rell , who wants the secret behind Discovery 's new form of travel , but Lorca and Tyler escape before the Klingons learn anything . For the final jump needed to escape the Klingons , with Lorca and Tyler on - board , Stamets connects to the spore drive himself using Ripper 's DNA . Later , Burnham frees Ripper , while Stamets ' reflection does not walk away from a mirror when he does . 6 `` Lethe '' Douglas Aarniokoski Joe Menosky & Ted Sullivan October 22 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 22 ) On his way to broker a peace deal with renegade Klingon houses , Sarek is injured when a `` logic extremist '' attempts to assassinate him . Burnham senses this , and Lorca agrees to rescue Sarek . Admiral Katrina Cornwell questions this decision and others that Lorca has been making . Burnham searches for Sarek in a shuttle with her roommate , Cadet Sylvia Tilly , and Tyler . Burnham attempts to connect with Sarek 's mind , and finds him remembering the time that her application for the Vulcan Expeditionary Group was rejected . She learns that the VEG would only admit one of Sarek 's children , and he chose Spock , his half - human son . Spock ultimately chose to join Starfleet , rendering Sarek 's decision futile . Burnham helps him regain consciousness and activate a locator beacon . Lorca and Cornwell sleep together , but she is concerned by his paranoid behavior and plans to remove him from command of Discovery . With Sarek unable to meet the Klingons , Cornwell takes his place ; however , the peace talks are actually a trap , and she is taken captive . 7 `` Magic to Make the Sanest Man Go Mad '' David M. Barrett Aron Eli Coleite & Jesse Alexander October 29 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 29 ) While attending a crew party , Burnham and Tyler are called to the bridge to deal with an endangered space creature that the Discovery has come across . When the creature is brought on board , it is revealed to be carrying a person : Harry Mudd . He plans to kill Lorca and sell the ship to the Klingons , but when he is caught he blows up the ship instead . Time returns to the party earlier , with Burnham and Tyler called to the bridge again . They are intercepted by Stamets , who is aware that they are in a time loop due to his interactions with Ripper . Over several time loops Stamets works with Burnham and Tyler to find a solution to the problem while Mudd gets further in his plan each time . They eventually convince Mudd that he has won , and he ends the time loop . Preparing to receive a boarding party of Klingons , Mudd is instead confronted by his `` beloved '' Stella and her father , from whom he had stolen her dowry . They take Mudd away . Stamets reveals to Burnham and Tyler that in one of the time loops they had danced together and kissed . 8 `` Si Vis Pacem , Para Bellum '' John S. Scott Kirsten Beyer November 5 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 05 ) Coming to the aid of another Federation ship , the Discovery is unable to prevent its destruction from a Klingon ship with their cloaking technology . Desperate for a way to detect these ships even when they are cloaked , Burnham , Tyler , and Saru are sent to Pahvo , a seemingly uninhabited planet with a naturally occurring crystalline transmitter that broadcasts the planet 's vibrational frequency into space . They hope to use the transmitter to create a sonar for the hidden Klingon ships . They discover that Pahvo is inhabited with indigenous life that introduce Saru to their higher understanding of peace , and he attempts to force Burnham and Tyler to remain with him on the planet forever . Burnham is able to fight off Saru and broadcast the new signal . However , the Pahvo lifeforms adjust the signal to contact the Klingons as well , hoping to end the war . Kol receives the signal , after sentencing L'Rell to death : she had tried to help Cornwell escape in exchange for protection from Kol , leading to L'Rell apparently killing Cornwell to try save face with Kol . 9 `` Into the Forest I Go '' Chris Byrne Bo Yeon Kim & Erika Lippoldt November 12 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 12 ) Lorca is ordered to flee before the Klingons arrive , but disobeys orders to protect the lifeforms on Pahvo and their chances of detecting the cloaked ships . When the Klingons arrive , Tyler and Burnham transport to their ship and plant sensors that will help create an algorithm for detecting the cloaked ships . They find an alive Cornwell hidden with L'Rell , but encountering the latter sends Tyler into shock due to PTSD from her torturing and raping him . Lorca has Stamets make 133 micro-jumps in order to provide a three - dimensional reading of the sensors , while Burnham distracts Kol by challenging him to a fight . The jumps are completed , though not without trauma to Stamets . When the algorithm is calculated , Burnham , Tyler , Cornwell , and L'Rell ( who wishes to defect ) are transported back to the Discovery and the Klingon ship is destroyed . Stamets volunteers to make one more jump to safety , but tells Lorca it will be his last . However , Lorca changes the coordinates and they jump to an unknown destination surrounded by debris from Klingon ships . 10 `` Despite Yourself '' Jonathan Frakes Sean Cochran January 7 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 07 ) Discovery 's crew determines that they have arrived in a parallel Mirror Universe , with Stamets now unconscious and unable to power the spore drive . Tyler confronts L'Rell , and she attempts to use a verbal cue to trigger something within him , though he fights this off . From a data core from a wrecked Klingon ship , they learn that this universe is ruled by the human Terran Empire , who are fighting a resistance that includes species such as Klingons and Vulcans . Here , Burnham is the former captain of the ISS Shenzhou , presumed dead after an attack by the fugitive Lorca . The ISS Discovery is captained by Silvia Tilly 's counterpart , so she and the crew pretend to be their Mirror selves . They deliver Burnham and Lorca to the Shenzhou , under the ruse that Burnham had been hunting Lorca since her presumed death and had now captured him . Tyler accompanies them , after first killing Culber when he informs Tyler that he appears to have undergone major surgical modifications . On the Shenzhou , Lorca is tortured while Burnham assumes command . 11 `` The Wolf Inside '' TJ Scott Lisa Randolph January 14 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 14 ) The ISS Shenzhou is given the coordinates of the resistance leadership , and ordered to kill them all . Burnham and Tyler travel as a landing party themselves and instead surrender to the resistance in hopes of learning how the Klingons of this universe have learned to work with other species ; they find that the Mirror Voq is the leader . Burnham offers to give the group time to escape before their base is destroyed , and Mirror Sarek confirms she can be trusted after connecting to her mind . Listening to Voq triggers Tyler 's programming , and he has to be restrained . Back on the ship , he reveals to Burnham that he now knows he was once Voq , and that he underwent surgery to appear human and infiltrate Starfleet . She has him beamed into space , where he is picked up by the USS Discovery . Saru and Tilly imprison him , having earlier found the body of Culber , and apparently failed to heal Stamets using spores . Burnham is reprimanded for not killing the resistance leaders immediately by the Emperor -- the Mirror Georgiou . 12 `` Vaulting Ambition '' Hanelle M. Culpepper Jordon Nardino January 21 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 21 ) Burnham and Lorca are summoned to the ISS Charon , the imperial flagship . Georgiou sends Lorca to a torturous agony booth , and has dinner with Burnham . Stamets finds himself within the mycelial network with the consciousness of his Mirror counterpart , learning that the network has been corrupted by the Mirror Stamets ' experiments . Stamets encounters a representation of Culber and accepts his loss , before waking up to find his spore collection infected . Georgiou laments allowing Lorca to become a father figure for Burnham , only for the pair to fall in love and plot to overthrow her . She plans to execute Burnham , who reveals the truth about being from another universe . Explaining how they had crossed over , Georgiou trades the spore drive 's schematics for information on alternative ways to cross between universes , which leads Burnham to realize that the Lorca she knows is actually from the Mirror Universe , and has been manipulating events to get close to her and back to the Mirror Universe . Lorca escapes from the agony booth . 13 `` What 's Past is Prologue '' TBA TBA January 28 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 28 ) 14 `` The War Without , The War Within '' TBA TBA February 4 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 04 ) 15 `` Will You Take My Hand ? '' TBA TBA February 11 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 11 )