Animal cell cytokinesis starts with the stabilization of microtubules and reorganization of the mitotic spindle to form the central spindle . The central spindle ( or spindle midzone ) forms when non-kinetochore microtubule fibres are bundled between the spindle poles . A number of different species including H. sapiens , D. melanogaster and C. elegans require the central spindle in order to efficiently undergo cytokinesis , although the specific phenotype described when it is absent varies from one species to the next ( for example , certain Drosophila cell types are incapable of forming a cleavage furrow without the central spindle , whereas in both C. elegans embryos and human tissue culture cells a cleavage furrow is observed to form and ingress , but then regress before cytokinesis is complete ) . The process of mitotic spindle reorganization and central spindle formation is caused by the decline of CDK1 activity during anaphase . The decline of CDK1 activity at the metaphase - anaphase transition leads to dephosphorylating of inhibitory sites on multiple central spindle components . First of all , the removal of a CDK1 phosphorylation from a subunit of the CPC ( the chromosomal passenger complex ) allows its translocalization to the central spindle from the centromeres , where it is located during metaphase . Besides being a structural component of the central spindle itself , CPC also plays a role in the phosphoregulation of other central spindle components , including PRC1 ( microtubule bundling protein required for cytokinesis 1 ) and MKLP1 ( a kinesin motor protein ) . Originally inhibited by CDK1 - mediated phosphorylation , PRC1 is now able to form a homodimer that selectively binds to the interface between antiparallel microtubules , facilitating spatial organization of the microtubules of the central spindle . MKLP1 , together with the Rho - family GTPase activating protein CYK - 4 ( also termed MgcRacGAP ) , forms the centralspindlin complex . Centralspindlin binds to the central spindle as higher - order clusters . The centralspindlin cluster formation is promoted by phosphorylation of MLKP1 by Aurora B , a component of CPC . In short , the self - assembly of central spindle is initiated through the phosphoregulation of multiple central spindle components by the decline of CDK1 activity , either directly or indirectly , at the metaphase -- anaphase transition . The central spindle may have multiple functions in cytokinesis including the control of cleavage furrow positioning , the delivery of membrane vesicles to the cleavage furrow , and the formation of the midbody structure that is required for the final steps of division .