Forensic Technology Division : Provides forensic services within the Boston Police Department through the following Units : The Crime Laboratory Unit is part of the Forensic Technology Division . The Crime Lab provides services to the City of Boston , MBTA , and several of the colleges and universities in Boston . This unit provides many services including : crime scene processing and evidence preservation , evidence collection , evidence & case review , analysis of evidence and reporting of results , courtroom testimony , in - service training , and various forensic lectures & presentations . The Firearm Analysis Unit is part of the Forensic Technology Division . This Unit provides forensic support to the Boston Police Department , Federal Law Enforcement Agencies and area college and university police departments . This unit provides many services including : firearm and ammunition certification , comparison of ballistic evidence , crime scene processing and evidence preservation , evidence collection , evidence & case review , analysis of evidence and reporting . The Latent Print Unit provides forensic support to the Boston Police Department , Federal Law Enforcement Agencies and area college and university police departments . This unit provides many services including : recovery and analysis of latent fingerprints , crime scene processing and evidence preservation , evidence collection , evidence & case review , analysis of evidence and reporting of results , courtroom testimony , in - service training , and various forensic lectures & presentations. results , courtroom testimony , in - service training , and various forensic lectures & presentations . The Family Justice Division consists of the following units within the Boston Police Department : Crimes Against Children Unit ( CACU ) Domestic Violence Unit ( DVU ) Human Trafficking Unit ( HTU ) Sexual Assault Unit ( SAU ) Media Relations is a part of the Office of the Police Commissioner . Media Relations provides public information to local and national media outlets , conducts news conferences and interviews , and provides Department spokespersons to ensure that the public receives timely and accurate information about department - related activities , programs , services and personnel . Internal Affairs investigates incidents of alleged police misconduct ; reviews complaint investigations to ensure that investigations are thorough and complete ; analyzes all complaint data ; and proactively assists in the development of needed training modules . The Boston Police Harbor Unit , led by the harbormaster , patrols the harbor daily to ensure that both commercial and recreational use of the harbor and its islands is safe . The unit also enforces maritime codes and environmental regulations as they apply to these waters . The Boston Police Rescue / Recovery Dive Team has 22 members and is overseen by a sergeant . The team is made up of various members of the department working all across the city that may be activated , as needed . The team responds to all underwater incidents in the city or in the 42 square miles of Boston Harbor . Also , the team is the primary investigative unit for any crimes that may occur on the Harbor Islands . The Hackney Carriage Unit is responsible for regulating all taxis , sightseeing automobiles , horse and carriages , and pedicabs in the city of Boston . Boston Police Special Operations Unit is a specialized unit within the Boston Police Department responsible for combined duties involving highway patrol and traffic enforcement , crowd control , and special weapons and tactics ( SWAT ) services within the city . One unique feature of the unit is that the Special Operations Unit primarily relies on the use of Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptors and Harley - Davidsons in their daily patrols . The use of motorcycles allows the unit to perform routine traffic enforcement ; accompany parades , crowds , and visiting dignitaries ; and to quickly travel to situations wherein the unit 's SWAT skills are requested . Specialized trucks and support vehicles are also used to transport equipment and officers when needed . The Canine Unit , Bomb Squad , Hazardous Materials Response Unit and the Truck Team are also under the Special Operations Division . Boston Police Gaelic Column of Pipes & Drums . Founded in 1992 , The Boston Police Gaelic Column is an independent , non-profit organization consisting of Boston Police officers and law enforcement officers from the greater Boston area . The Gaelic Column is affiliated with the Boston Police Department but is funded entirely through the efforts of its members and supporters . They perform at Boston Police events , parades and other events throughout the Boston area .