Find My iPhone There 's a new `` Find My AirPods '' tool in Find My iPhone to help users locate lost AirPods . The Location and Play Sound is now supported for AirPods . This sound emits a noise from the AirPods that reaches a high volume after a few seconds . Users should remove their AirPods from their ears before playing the sound . HomeKit Expanded HomeKit Programmable Light Switch accessory support . Siri Siri can now display cricket scores from the Indian Premier League and the International Cricket Council . Siri updated to be able to pay bills , check on the status of payments , and schedule future rides ( via services such as Uber and Lyft ) for apps that support it . Siri now has breadcrumb support . For example , users can say `` Hey Siri , open the App Store '' and a back arrow ( or left arrow ) will appear in the left of the iOS status bar to jump back to the Siri interface . Safari Safari now supports the Reduced Motion accessibility preference for web apps . Maps The weather icon in the Maps app includes 3D Touch to show hourly forecasts . Removed 3D globe , replaces it with a flat 2D look . Calendar Shows an alert below the `` Event Details '' page , for event invitations sent from an unknown senders , and allows users to report event invites sent from unknown senders as junk . CarPlay CarPlay includes new shortcuts for launching recently used apps . EV charging station locations show up in CarPlay . New `` Up next '' option and quick access to albums . News The navigation bar icons are now visibly bolder . There is now an option to ' show disliked ' channels on the bottom of the `` Favorites '' page . An option has been introduced to where users can now quickly favorite or dislike news channels from the `` Explore '' section or the news channel that is currently open . Home There is now support in Home which allows users to trigger scenes which use accessories that contain switches and buttons . There is now support in Home which allows users to see the remaining charge of the batteries in their HomeKit accessories . Mail Conversation View in the Mail app features navigation improvements . When an email is open in Mail app , the `` back '' button in the left corner of the screen shows the number of unread emails in the mailbox you opened the email in ( Similar to the Messages app ) . Animations Slightly refined opening animation for apps to where rounded edges are now visible when opening applications ( more noticeable on applications that load slowly ) . Field Test Now updated for iPhone 7 and 7 Plus devices which contain modems from Intel . Podcasts Support for 3D Touch and a Today widget has been added which allows users to access recently updated podcasts . Podcast shows or episodes can now be shared in the Messages app and they feature full playback support . Settings Notifications Users can now get notifications for settings other than software updates such as for two - factor authentication . Restrictions Users can now restrict certain TV providers . iTunes and App Store New system level way for developers to request app ratings , opt out option in Settings . iCloud The iCloud tab has moved to the top of Settings instead of being at the bottom , and also now displays the user 's name and picture along with the email address ( es ) associated with their Apple ID ( s ) . Underneath this new tab is where settings notifications appear . The amount of storage users have and how much storage users have used is now shown . iCloud Drive cellular data usage settings have been moved to the cellular tab . `` Backup '' has been renamed to ' iCloud Backup `` . General `` Diagnostics and Usage '' is now labeled `` Analytics '' , corresponding changes included in menu . There is a new button to toggle iCloud data over cellular networks . Touch ID and Passcode When choosing an alphanumeric code with numbers only , passcodes can no longer be shorter than 4 characters in length . An error displays saying that `` this passcode must be longer '' . Calling Calls on Other Devices even when not nearby is now enabled for Verizon 's Integrated Calling feature . News An option was added where users can disable the Next Up button from appearing while in a news article . `` Show Disliked '' section under Favourites , this shows the channels that you have disliked . Keyboards & IME Facemarks have been shuffled around in the Chinese and Japanese keyboard layouts . The icon of the emoji button on the keyboard is now filled in and no longer outlined like it was in previous versions of iOS . Music It is now possible to rearrange songs while repeat mode is turned on . App Store Developers can now respond to reviews on the App Store . Developers will now be able to update the icons for their apps at any time , with an app update no longer required to push out new icon artwork for their apps . App Store reviews now include the publish date of when the review was published . When a user uses 3D Touch on an app review , they can rate the review as Helpful , Not Helpful , or Report a Concern with the review . Users no longer have to enter their Apple ID password when writing a review . Spotlight Spotlight Search Suggestions now have a border , floating text no longer appears . Other improvements , bug fixes , and enhancements Users can now rent a movie once and they can watch their iTunes movies across their various devices . Fixes the 30 % battery bug that was present in previous versions of iOS 10 for IPhone 6 and iPhone 6S devices . An alert is now displayed to indicate that 32 - bit apps on 10.3 need to be updated and will no longer work in future versions of iOS . An `` App Compatibility '' list of 32 - bit apps can be accessed by going to General > About > tapping on `` Applications '' . Improves performance across the system and the responsiveness of the operating system has been improved . The file system has been updated to the Apple File System ( APFS ) , which replaces HFS Plus , and is designed for Flash / SSD storage . APFS also features improved security and encryption , and improves system performance . Fixes an issue related to the Messages app where the app would freeze and crash upon receiving a long text message . Fixes an issue on the iPad Pro where the Apple Pencil 's battery would n't charge above 5 % . Fixes an issue where the Telephoto lens on the iPhone 7 Plus would not activate while in the 2x zoom mode . Fixes an issue in Notification Center where tapping the search bar in between the Today view and Notification Center would cause the Springboard to crash and reload . The passcode menu UIs have been updated to show dots instead of dashes . VoiceOver stability improvements for the Phone , Safari , and Mail apps Fixes an issue that could prevent Maps from displaying a user 's current location after resetting Location & Privacy settings . Security Fixes over 100 security vulnerabilities in various aspects of iOS such as Audio , the Core libraries , and WebKit . For more information regarding these security fixes , please visit https://support.apple.com/HT207617 .