No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) 232 `` The Proposal Proposal '' Mark Cendrowski Story by : Chuck Lorre & Eric Kaplan & Jeremy Howe Teleplay by : Steve Holland & Maria Ferrari & Tara Hernandez September 25 , 2017 ( 2017 - 09 - 25 ) T12. 15601 17.65 Amy enthusiastically accepts Sheldon 's marriage proposal . However , when dining with Amy 's colleagues later that night , Sheldon is offended that they are more impressed with Amy 's work than his own . With help from Stephen Hawking , Sheldon later comes to grips with the fact that he will not always be the center of attention in the marriage . Bernadette is shocked to realize that she is pregnant again . She and Howard are not thrilled at the idea of having another baby so soon after their first . They attempt to convince Leonard and Penny to have a child as well , but are rebuffed . Title reference : Sheldon 's proposal of marriage 233 `` The Retraction Reaction '' Mark Cendrowski Story by : Steven Molaro & Steve Holland & Maria Ferrari Teleplay by : Dave Goetsch & Eric Kaplan & Anthony Del Broccolo October 2 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 02 ) T12. 15602 14.06 Leonard gives an interview on public radio where he admits physics research might be at a dead end . The university is furious and , while trying to think of reasons to put in a retraction , he depresses Sheldon into thinking he might be right . Howard and Raj come over and end up just as depressed . Getting drunk with Penny , the guys go to the grave of Richard Feynman and realize there is hope for physics as long as they believe in it . Leonard accidentally sends a drunken email to Human Resources . Meanwhile , Amy and Bernadette agree with each other to keep quiet about the success in their careers so as not to upset Sheldon and Howard . While bragging to each other , they end up arguing which of their fields is better . Title reference : Leonard 's depression while writing a retraction of his statements on the radio . 234 `` The Relaxation Integration '' Mark Cendrowski Story by : Chuck Lorre & Steve Holland & Adam Faberman Teleplay by : Maria Ferrari & Andy Gordon & Tara Hernandez October 9 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 09 ) T12. 15603 13.13 Sheldon can not find the perfect wedding date and begins talking in his sleep , like a laid - back person who just goes with the flow . Amy and Penny believe that his subconscious mind is trying to tell him to be more relaxed ; his attempt to be so while wearing flip - flops ends in disaster . He decides to leave all the wedding planning to Amy while he wears a Star Trek uniform underneath his tuxedo . Meanwhile , Stuart and Raj both become interested in Bernadette 's new coworker Ruchi . While she likes them both as friends , she does not want a relationship with anyone , and Stuart apologizes to her . Title reference : Sheldon trying to embrace the relaxed side of his personality . 235 `` The Explosion Implosion '' Mark Cendrowski Story by : Bill Prady & Maria Ferrari & Tara Hernandez Teleplay by : Steve Holland & Eric Kaplan & Jeremy Howe October 16 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 16 ) T12. 15604 13.07 Bernadette and Howard learn their second child will be a boy , leading Howard to doubt whether he can be a good father to a son . He and Sheldon go out in the desert to test launch a model rocket , but it explodes , causing him further doubt . On the way home , Howard does a good job coaching Sheldon to drive them home , for which Sheldon tells him he will be a good teacher to his son . Leonard 's mother Beverly begins talking to Penny as a friend and confidant , troubling Leonard , especially when he learns that Beverly told Penny that she is proud of her , a level of praise she never bestowed upon Leonard himself . When Leonard confronts Beverly , he is touched when she says that of all of her children 's spouses , Penny is the one she is most impressed by , and that for this , she is indeed proud of him . Meanwhile , Raj helps Bernadette turn baby girl clothes into boy ones . Title reference : The fate of Sheldon and Howard 's model rocket . 236 5 `` The Collaboration Contamination '' Nikki Lorre Story by : Steven Molaro & Steve Holland & Eric Kaplan Teleplay by : Dave Goetsch & Maria Ferrari & Jeremy Howe October 23 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 23 ) T12. 15605 13.20 Amy and Howard begin collaborating on a neuroprosthetics project , upsetting Sheldon and Raj , who feel they are not spending as much time with them . When they seek solace with an annoyed Bernadette , she exploits the situation to trick Sheldon into doing Howard 's chores . Penny employs the approaches recommended in one of Bernadette 's parenting books to deal with Sheldon with success , but Leonard believes she is coddling Sheldon too much . Sheldon and Raj resolve the issue of missing their significant others by spending time together . Title reference : Amy and Howard 's collaboration contaminating Sheldon and Raj 's moods . 237 6 `` The Proton Regeneration '' Mark Cendrowski Story by : Steven Molaro , Dave Goetsch , Alex Yonks Teleplay by : Dave Steve Holland , Andy Gordon , Jeremy Howe November 2 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 02 ) T12. 15606 14.14 Sheldon 's childhood science show with Professor Proton is being rebooted . After unsuccessfully auditioning for the part , he goes to Wil Wheaton for acting tips only to find out Wil has taken the role . Talking it over with Arthur in his dreams he is still upset his idol is replaced and considers Wil an enemy again . Meanwhile , Howard gets a vasectomy while Bernadette is on bed rest . Penny offers to take care of Halley for them but they insult her by saying Penny is irresponsible . Halley ends up saying her first word by calling Penny `` Mama . '' Title reference : The announced reboot of the Professor Proton series . 238 7 `` The Geology Methodology '' Mark Cendrowski Story by : Steven Holland & Anthony Del Broccolo & Adam Faberman Teleplay by : Eric Kaplan & Maria Ferrari & Tara Hernandez November 9 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 09 ) T12. 15607 13.80 Bert asks for Sheldon 's help in a geology research project relating to dark matter . Sheldon secretly agrees , but is too embarrassed to admit he is working with rocks . Bert finds out about this and ends their partnership . After talking with Amy , Sheldon goes to apologize , only to find Leonard has taken his place . Meanwhile , Raj runs into Ruchi again and goes out with her , but she does not believe in romantic love . After Bernadette and Howard tell Raj that he can just have sex with Ruchi , he agrees to keep it casual . Title reference : Sheldon working in geology with Bert . 239 8 `` The Tesla Recoil '' Anthony Rich Story by : Chuck Lorre & Eric Kaplan & Tara Hernandez Teleplay by : Steve Holland & Maria Ferrari & Jeremy Howe November 16 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 16 ) T12. 15608 13.44 After learning Sheldon went behind their backs to work with the military again , Leonard and Howard say Sheldon is like Thomas Edison , taking credit for other 's ideas , while they are more like Nikola Tesla . Leonard and Howard bring in Barry Kripke to help create a better idea than Sheldon 's , but Kripke goes to the military himself cutting all three of them out . Meanwhile , Bernadette fears Ruchi is trying to steal her projects at work while she is on maternity leave , and hires Raj to spy on her . Though he finds proof that Ruchi may be stealing from Bernadette , Raj tries to defend Ruchi like a boyfriend would , pointing out Bernadette 's hypocrisy as she would 've most likely stolen from other people 's projects as well . Ruchi is not happy about this and promptly dumps Raj . Title reference : The guys discussion of Tesla and Edison . 240 9 `` The Bitcoin Entanglement '' Mark Cendrowski Story by : Steve Holland & Andy Gordon & Jeremy Howe Teleplay by : Dave Goetsch & Maria Ferrari & Anthony Del Broccolo November 30 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 30 ) T12. 15609 13.84 In 2010 , Leonard , Raj and Howard mined a lot of Bitcoin , worth thousands of dollars seven years later , though Sheldon chose not to participate due to tax consequences . Flashbacks are shown of how the Bitcoin ended up on an old laptop of Leonard 's , which Penny gave to her old boyfriend Zack after she and Leonard broke up . In 2017 , Leonard and Penny retrieve the computer from Zack , who first shows them a video of a drunken Penny apologizing for breaking up with Leonard . The Bitcoin is not found on the laptop . Sheldon had moved it to a flash drive on Leonard 's keychain to teach them a lesson , but Leonard lost the keychain years ago . A final flashback to 2013 shows Stuart discovering the flash drive , which he decides to erase and sell for $10 . Title reference : The guys trying to find their old Bitcoin investment . 241 10 `` The Confidence Erosion '' Mark Cendrowski Story by : Bill Prady & Maria Ferrari & Adam Faberman Teleplay by : Steve Holland & Eric Kaplan & Tara Hernandez December 7 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 07 ) T12. 15610 14.41 When Raj loses a job interview at a planetarium , his father says he has no confidence because Howard always makes fun of him . Raj distances himself from Howard and later gets the job . Howard is hurt by this ( even after apologizing to him ) and tries to make amends with Raj after his first talk at the planetarium , but when he sees him get a date , he leaves without speaking to him , thinking that the latter 's life is better without him . Meanwhile , Sheldon and Amy try randomly dividing up wedding tasks , but they keep arguing . The only thing they can agree on is to get married so they decide to just get married at City Hall . However , Sheldon decides that he wants a first dance with his new wife , and they go home to plan their wedding . Title reference : Howard eroding Raj 's confidence . 242 11 `` The Celebration Reverberation '' Mark Cendrowski Story by : Steve Holland & Eric Kaplan & Alex Ayers Teleplay by : Dave Goetsch & Maria Ferrari & Jeremy Howe December 14 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 14 ) T12. 15611 13.74 Raj and Howard are still fighting so Howard dis - invites Raj to Halley 's birthday party . However , when Howard 's designated party planner Stuart pulls out at the last minute , Raj agrees to plan the party , which does n't turn out too well due to Halley being asleep , Bernadette on bed rest and no people turning up . When Raj and Howard get into a shoving match in the party 's bounce house , they end up letting out their frustrations with each other , but also having fun and reconciling . Leonard is depressed upon receiving his successful brother 's Christmas card and attempts to make a list of what he and Penny accomplished this year , but does n't come up with much . This prompts them to think about their plans for the future , so they decide to go on trips and achieve more out of life together before starting a family . Sheldon cooks Amy a Little House on the Prairie - themed birthday dinner , which gives them both food poisoning . They eventually recover enough to attend Halley 's birthday party with the others , where they decide to have fun in the bouncy castle and then have sex in Howard and Bernadette 's house . Title reference : Amy and Halley 's birthday celebrations . 243 12 `` The Matrimonial Metric '' Mark Cendrowski Story by : Maria Ferrari & Tara Hernandez & Jeremy Howe Teleplay by : Steve Holland & Eric Kaplan & Andy Gordon January 4 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 04 ) T12. 15612 16.16 Sheldon and Amy struggle to choose a best man and maid of honor from their friends . They secretly decide to test and score them , allowing everyone to have an equal shot at either role . Once the gang finds out , none of them apart from Bernadette and Stuart want to be in the wedding . Sheldon settles for Stuart as best man , but once Leonard tells Sheldon that as the groom , the decision is his alone , he picks Leonard . Amy is set to call Bernadette but once Penny realizes Amy is her best friend , she immediately pitches herself for the position and Amy enthusiastically chooses her . Amy later makes Penny tell Bernadette the bad news . Title reference : Sheldon and Amy scoring their friends for roles in the wedding . 244 13 `` The Solo Oscillation '' Mark Cendrowski Story by : Chuck Lorre & Steve Holland & Anthony Del Broccolo Teleplay by : Eric Kaplan & Maria Ferrari & Jeremy Howe January 11 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 11 ) T12. 15613 TBD 245 14 `` The Separation Triangulation '' Mark Cendrowski Story by : Chuck Lorre & Eric Kaplan & Maria Ferrari Teleplay by : Steven Molaro & Steve Holland & Tara Hernandez January 18 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 18 ) TBA TBD