Overall No . Saga No . English translation Original Japanese title Original airdate American airdate 77 `` Let 's Do It , Zen - Oh Sama ! The All - Universe Martial Arts Tournament ! ! '' `` Yarou ze Zenō - sama ! Uchū ichi Budō - kai ! ! '' ( や ろう ぜ 全 王様 ! 宇宙 一 武道 会 ! ! ) February 5 , 2017 TBA The Present Zenō - sama and Future Zenō - sama are playing a game together in their realm , but both have become bored with their monotonous routine . Meanwhile , Goku heads to a local farmer 's market to sell his produce and get Chi - Chi off his back about making money . On the way home , he is ambushed by some robbers . Goku defeats them , but he is injured in the process . Deciding that he has grown rusty , Goku and Goten decide to train with Whis . They head to the Capsule Corporation building , where Bulma reveals she is pregnant with her and Vegeta 's second child . Goten remains behind to train with Trunks . Vegeta declines to accompany Goku so that he can be with Bulma when she gives birth . Goku heads to Beerus ' planet alone . While training with Whis , Goku remembers Zenō - sama 's intention to hold a multiverse martial arts tournament . Heedless of Beerus and Whis ' warnings , Goku uses Zenō - sama 's button to head to his realm and convince both Zenō - samas to hold the tournament . When he returns to Beerus ' planet , Beerus angrily berates Goku and explains that Zenō - sama 's naive and innocent nature combined with his extreme power makes him a danger to the multiverse . Beerus threatens to kill Goku if he steps out of line again . Goku , Beerus , and Whis head to the Sacred World of the Kais , where the Great Priest arrives . He tells the group to assemble their ten most powerful warriors to compete in the `` Tournament of Power '' ( 力 の 大会 , Chikara no Taikai ) . 78 `` The Gods of Every Universe in Shock ? ! Losers Erased in the Tournament of Power '' `` Zen uchū no kami - sama mo don hiki ! ? Maketara shōmetsu `` Chikara no taikai '' '' ( 全 宇宙 の 神様 も ドン 引き ! ? 負け たら 消滅 「 力 の 大会 」 ) February 12 , 2017 TBA The Great Priest explains the details of the `` Tournament of Power '' and states that it will be held on `` the World of Void '' . It is a place of `` infinite nothingness '' , where the competitors can fight without limits . The tournament champion will be granted a wish by the Super Dragon Balls , while the losers and their respective universes will be completely erased from existence . Everyone is horrified by this harsh penalty . Goku suggests asking Zenō - sama to ignore it , but Whis advises against this . Whis tells Goku that Zenō - sama has already made up his mind and attempting to change it could be dangerous . Beerus demands that Goku takes responsibility for asking Zenō - sama to hold the tournament in the first place . Goku declares that he will defeat any opponent he faces . The Great Priest also reveals that Universes 7 and 9 are to have a smaller exhibition tournament for Future Zenō - sama 's benefit . Each universe is to name three fighters . Goku sets off to recruit teammates . After Vegeta refuses , Goku recruits Gohan and Majin Buu , who is accompanied by Mr. Satan to represent Universe 7 . Goku also explains the potential penalty to Gohan . Gohan tells Goku to keep the stakes a secret to prevent mass panic . Back at Zenō - sama 's palace , all the gods from all 12 universes gather . The Great Priest explains the purpose of the Zen Exhibition Match . He alludes to the possibility of Zenō - sama erasing the fighters that he deems unfit for the tournament . In the first round , Majin Buu is to fight Basil ( バジル , Bajiru ) , a humanoid canine fighter from Universe 9 . 79 `` Universe 9 's Basil the Kicker VS Universe 7 's Majin Buu ! ! '' `` Dai kyu uchū keri no Bajiru basasu Dai nana uchū Majinbū ! ! '' ( 第 9 宇宙 蹴り の バジル VS 第 7 宇宙 魔 人 ブウ ! ! ) February 19 , 2017 TBA Basil quickly gains the upper hand and beats down Majin Buu , who is not taking the fight seriously and thinks of it as a game . Goku goads Basil into showing his full power to get Majin Buu 's attention , which leads to Basil using his ultimate attack . As Roh ( ロウ , Rō ) , the Supreme Kai of Universe 9 , claims victory , Majin Buu emerges with a hole in his stomach , but he is otherwise unmoved . Basil and Roh are shocked to see this . Mr. Satan is injured during the attack . He tells Majin Buu to beat Basil before falling unconscious . This enrages Majin Buu to the point , where he effortlessly beats Basil and knocks him out of the ring . However , since neither Zenō - sama is satisfied with the fight , Basil is allowed to get back into the ring . Roh gives Basil a drug that makes him far more powerful . Although Beerus demands that Basil is disqualified for obvious cheating , Zenō - sama is entertained by this and allows the fight to continue . The Great Priest announces that the rules will be improvised as the tournament goes along . Basil overpowers Majin Buu and seemingly beats him , which causes Roh to prematurely gloat about the superiority of Universe 9 . However , Majin Buu emerges unscathed and launches a full power attack at Basil . This knocks him out and clinches Universe 7 the victory . As the Universe 9 team laments Basil 's loss , Basil 's second oldest brother Lavender ( ラベンダ , Rabenda ) says that if he is allowed to kill his opponent , which Bergamo gives him permission to do , he can win his match . Gohan volunteers to fight Lavender . 80 `` Awaken Your Sleeping Battle Spirit ! Son Gohan 's Fight ! ! '' `` Nemutta tōshi o yobisamase ! Son Gohan no tatakai ! ! '' ( 眠っ た 闘志 を 呼び覚ませ ! 孫 悟 飯 の 闘い ! ! ) February 26 , 2017 TBA As their battle begins , Lavender spits a poison mist into Gohan 's eyes and blinds him . Shin offers Gohan a Senzu bean to cure the poison , but Gohan refuses and says he wants to fight with his strength alone . Unable to see , Gohan uses his other senses to track Lavender and scores several blows . Lavender counters by levitating , which eliminates the sound of his footsteps . Gohan responds by powering up to Super Saiyan and bouncing his own ki off of Lavender 's body , which uses it as a kind of active radar . Powering up also causes the poison to spread rapidly through Gohan 's body . Lavender mounts a comeback . In desperation , Gohan grabs hold of Lavender and launches a kamikaze attack . He drives both of their bodies into the ring at high speed . Lavender is knocked out , but Gohan is so weakened by the poison that he can not continue . With both fighters down , the match is declared a tie . After Goku feeds Gohan a Senzu bean , the Great Priest announces to those in attendance that all universes that lose the Tournament of Power will be erased with their respective gods as well . However , Universes 1 , 5 , 8 , and 12 will be exempt from erasure as will the Angels from all universes because their inhabitants are particularly strong . Zeno - sama had long believed that there were too many universes . He was planning to erase most of them anyway , but the tournament will afford one of the weaker universes the chance to be spared . With the announcement concluded , the ring is repaired in preparation for the final exhibition match where Goku will fight Bergamo ( ベルガモ , Berugamo ) , Basil 's oldest brother who is also a humanoid canine . 81 5 `` Bergamo the Crusher Vs Son Goku ! Which One Wields the Limitless Power ? ! '' `` Tsubushi no Berugamo VS Son Gokū ! Aotenjō no tsuyosa wa dotchida ! ? '' ( 潰し の ベルガモ VS 孫悟空 ! 青 天井 の 強 さ は どっち だ ! ? ) March 5 , 2017 TBA Before their battle begins , Bergamo denounces Goku before the assembled gods . Bergamo pleads with Zenō - sama to rescind the rule that the universes that lose the Tournament of Power be erased . Zenō - sama agrees on the condition that Bergamo beats Goku in an all out battle . Great Priest states that if Goku holds back to cancel the erasure , Zenō - sama will immediately erase all of the universes . Both Goku and Bergamo agree to the terms . When the fight begins , Bergamo invites Goku to hit him and leaves himself exposed . Goku obliges and strikes Bergamo several times , but Bergamo absorbs the energy of Goku 's attacks . He grows stronger and physically larger . Goku continues to attack , which causes Bergamo to grow so large that the ring begins to buckle under his weight . Goku transforms to Super Saiyan Blue , which shocks the gods and quickly overwhelms Bergamo with a Kaioken powered Kamehameha . Bergamo claims every universe participating in the Tournament of Power will seek vengeance on Goku for making them face erasure , but Goku relishes the idea of such a challenge . The Zen Exhibition Match comes to a close and the Tournament of Power will soon begin . The universe with the most fighters remaining or the last fighter standing will be declared the winner . Suddenly , a mysterious fighter from Universe 11 named Toppo ( トッポ ) appears and challenges Goku to a battle . Goku , who is unsatisfied after his short fight with Bergamo , agrees to fight Toppo . 82 6 `` Never Forgive Son Goku ! Toppo the Warrior of Justice Intrudes ! ! '' `` Son Gokū yurusumaji ! Seigi no senshi Toppo ran'nyū ! ! ! '' ( 孫悟空 許す まじ ! 正義 の 戦士 トッポ 乱入 ! ! ) March 19 , 2017 TBA After obtaining Zenō - sama 's blessing to proceed , Goku and Toppo begin their battle . Toppo quickly gains the upper hand and dislocates Goku 's shoulder . Goku responds by attacking with a flurry of blows , but Toppo manages to grab Goku in a powerful bear hug . He begins squeezing the life out of Goku , which forces Goku to turn Super Saiyan Blue to escape . Goku gains the upper hand in this form and damages Toppo with a Kamehameha . Just as the two power up even more , the Great Priest puts an end to the fight . As Toppo leaves , he reveals to Goku that Universe 11 has a warrior even stronger than him named Jiren ( ジレン ) . The Great Priest begins creating a martial arts arena suitable for the Tournament of Power . In the Sacred World of the Kais , Beerus and Goku get into an argument over Goku 's constant relaxed and negligent attitude , which Whis breaks up . The group agrees to convene at the Capsule Corporation to discuss their future strategy . 83 7 `` Form the Universe 7 Representing Team ! Who are the Strongest Ten ? ! '' `` Dai - 7 uchū daihyō chīmu o kessei seyo ! Saikyō no 10 - ri wa dareda ? '' ( 第 7 宇宙 代表 チーム を 結成 せよ ! 最強 の 10 人 は 誰 だ ! ? ) March 26 , 2017 TBA Goku and the others arrive at Capsule Corporation . They discuss who should be on the team . Goku immediately suggests Monaka , but Beerus tells him that Monaka is sick and can not participate . Goku and Gohan agree on Vegeta , Piccolo , Krillin , Master Roshi , No. 18 , and No. 17 , which would bring the total number of fighters up to nine . Trunks and Goten are ruled out due to their inexperience . They proceed to ask Vegeta , who has been thinking of a name for his second child . Vegeta refuses to participate . He says he will not fight , while Bulma is pregnant . Whis uses his time warping ability to birth the baby sooner than expected in order to get Vegeta to agree to the fight . Everyone celebrates the baby 's birth . Trunks is slightly disappointed he has a sister because he wanted to train with a younger brother . As soon as the baby is handed to Vegeta , he develops an attachment to her . Bulma names the baby Bulla even though Vegeta hoped to give her the Saiyan name Eschalot . However , Vegeta quickly accepts Bulla 's name . Goku leaves to recruit members and heads to Krillin 's house . 84 8 `` Son Goku the Recruiter Invites Krillin and No. 18 '' `` Sukautoman Son Gokū - Kuririn to 18 - gō o izanau '' ( スカウト マン 孫悟空 クリリン と 18 号 を 誘う ) April 2 , 2017 TBA Goku and Gohan arrive at Krillin 's house and ask him and No. 18 to join the Tournament of Power . No. 18 convinces Krillin to participate in order to put his newfound martial arts training to use . No. 18 is reluctant to join herself . She quickly suspects Goku and Gohan of hiding something from them , but Goku convinces her that the secret is a 10 million Zeni reward , which convinces her to participate . Gohan decides to test Krillin in a sparring match on the coast . After Gohan overpowers him in hand to hand combat , Krillin swiftly defeats Gohan by blinding him with his new move named Solar Flare x 100 and knocking him into the sea . Goku is excited by Krillin 's new power . He challenges him to a sparring match as well . They relocate to a building owned by Mr. Satan , where Krillin 's strategies make up for the gap in power , forcing Goku to go Super Saiyan . Goku then transforms into his Super Saiyan Blue form , and he and Krillin have a Kamehameha clash . As Goku increases his power and starts to overpower Krillin , No. 18 intervenes and blocks Goku 's Kamehameha , just as Krillin collapses from exhaustion . She justifies herself by noting that the Tournament of Power will be a battle royal and that Goku can not expect to fight one - on - one all the time . Goku concedes the match and realizes he will have to adjust his tactics in order to win the Tournament of Power . No. 18 reveals that No. 17 is currently working at a wildlife reserve , but she does not know where . Goku decides to ask Dende to find No. 17 . 85 9 `` The Universes Begin to Make Their Moves Their Individual Motives '' `` Ugokidasu uchū - sorezore no omowaku '' ( 動き出す 宇宙 - それぞれ の 思惑 ) April 9 , 2017 TBA Gohan leaves to recruit Piccolo , while Goku prepares to head to the Lookout . He encounters Majin Buu and Mr. Satan training . Goku discovers that Buu has lost weight and has gotten much slimmer in appearance . The two spar together . Buu defeats Goku by overwhelming him with ki blasts and knocking him out of the fighting stage . Meanwhile , Khai ( カイ ) , the Supreme Kai of Universe 11 , gathers all of the Supreme Kais involved in the tournament except for Universe 7 's , who is ostracized due to Goku 's involvement with the creation of the tournament . Khai asks his fellow Supreme Kais to request that Zenō - sama cancel the erasure of the universes , but they are all too afraid of his wrath to do so . Champa gathers all the Gods of Destruction involved in the tournament except Beerus after finding out about the Supreme Kai 's meeting , and they discuss Goku . Toppo recruits his fellow Pride Troopers Kahseral ( カーセラル , Kāseraru ) and Dyspo ( ディスポ , Disupo ) . Champa recruits Cabba and demands he find more powerful Saiyans . Goku meets Dende and Mr. Popo at the Lookout and learns No. 17 's location . Gohan prepares to train with Piccolo . 86 10 `` Fist Cross for the First Time ! Android # 17 VS Son Goku ! ! '' `` Hajimete majiwaru kobushi ! Jinzōningen Jūnana - gō VS Son Gokū ! ! '' ( 初めて 交わる 拳 ! 人造 人間 17 号 VS 孫悟空 ! ! ) April 16 , 2017 TBA On their way to the island where No. 17 is working , Dende explains that since the conclusion of the Cell Games , No. 17 has started a family and gotten far stronger . Dende also reveals that Kid Buu has reincarnated as a young Earthling with massive fighting potential and asks Goku to train him when he is old enough . They reach the island as Goku arrives just in time to witness No. 17 defeat a group of armed poachers . As they introduce themselves to each other , a large army of poachers arrive . Goku and No. 17 team up to subdue them all . Afterwards , No. 17 explains that the poachers are after the last Minotaurus in order to steal its rare and valuable horns . The two decide to have a sparring match . No. 17 evenly matches Super Saiyan Goku , which causes him to turn Super Saiyan Blue . Goku launches a Kamehameha at No. 17 , who easily deflects it with an energy shield . The two go toe - to - toe until No. 17 ends the match in order to avoid catching the island in the crossfire . Goku and No. 17 acknowledge that they were both holding back in the fight . Afterwards , Goku attempts to convince him to join the Tournament of Power , but No. 17 is uninterested . He remains indifferent even when Goku reveals that the losing universes will be erased . Meanwhile , alien poachers arrive on Earth and they set their sights on the Minotaurus . 87 11 `` Hunt the Poachers ! Goku and No. 17 's United Front ! ! '' `` Mitsuryō - dan o kare ! Gokū to Jūnana - gō no kyōtō ! ! '' ( 密漁 団 を 狩れ ! 悟空 と 17 号 の 共闘 ! ! ) April 23 , 2017 TBA Goku entices No. 17 with a wish on the Super Dragon Balls . As he begins to consider Goku 's offer , the alien poachers arrive and abduct all of the island 's animals . Goku uses his Instant Transmission to teleport himself and No. 17 aboard their ship before it can escape . After defeating some of the poachers , No. 17 sets off to defeat the leader , while Goku remains behind to battle the rest of the poachers . No. 17 confronts and easily defeats the leader . Goku catches up just as the leader pulls out a switch and threatens to self - destruct if he is not released immediately . No. 17 smashes him out of a window , which vents both of them into deep space . Goku manages to use his Instant Transmission to teleport all three of them to King Kai 's world . Dende contacts Goku and informs him that the leader 's threat was a bluff . Afterwards , Goku and No. 17 return the animals to their rightful homes . Jaco arrives to arrest the alien poachers . No. 17 decides to leave his island in the hands of Goten and Trunks and accepts Goku 's offer to fight in the Tournament of Power . He hopes to use the Super Dragon Balls to wish for an expensive boat and travel the world with his family . 88 12 `` Gohan and Piccolo Teacher and Pupil Clash in Max Training ! '' `` Gohan to Pikkoro Shitei gekitotsu no Genkai shugyō ! '' ( 悟 飯 と ピッコロ 師弟 激突 の 限界 修業 ! ) April 30 , 2017 TBA Gohan and Piccolo engage in intense training . Piccolo explains that Goku has already informed him about the potential erasure of the universe and that he is going to participate in the Tournament of Power . He points out that Gohan 's over eagerness to protect his loved ones is making him reckless . Gohan transforms into a Super Saiyan , and the two continue to spar . Meanwhile , Cabba heads to the residence of his retired captain and mentor , Renso ( レンソウ ) . Cabba asks him to join Universe 6 's team for the Tournament of Power , but Renso refuses due to an injury to his leg . Renso suggests his sister , Caulifla ( カリフラ , Karifura ) , instead , who he claims is even stronger than him . Back in Universe 7 , Piccolo removes his weighted clothes to go all out and quickly defeats Gohan . Piccolo explains that Gohan has a tendency to become arrogant when he has the advantage in battle . After being encouraged by Piccolo , Gohan manages to reach the level of power he had against Super Buu . The two fight again , and Gohan successfully severs Piccolo 's arm . However , Piccolo blasts him in the back with the severed arm and defeats Gohan , which proves Piccolo 's point about Gohan 's overconfidence . That night , Piccolo vows to push Gohan to new heights of power . They both agree to work on combination moves . 89 13 `` An Unknown Beauty Appears ! The Tenshin - Style Dojo 's Mystery ? ! '' `` Arawareta nazo no bijo ! Tenshin - ryū Dōjō no kai ! ? '' ( 現れ た 謎 の 美女 ! 天津 流 道場 の 怪 ! ? ) May 7 , 2017 TBA Goku heads to Master Roshi 's island , where Oolong informs him that Tien and Chiaotzu have started a martial arts dojo , and that Roshi has headed there to act as a special instructor . Goku decides to make Tien the tenth member of the team , and heads off to recruit him and Roshi . At Tien 's dojo , a woman named Yurin ( ユーリン , Yūrin ) with a grudge against Tien arrives and requests to join the dojo . Although Tien denies her because her motivation of beauty was unfit for his dojo , Roshi drags Yurin off to ogle her . Goku arrives and asks Tien to join the Tournament of Power , but , even after Goku bribes him with 10 million Zeni , Tien refuses . Yurin escapes Roshi 's advances and uses witchcraft to drive Tien 's students on a rampage throughout town . Goku , Tien , Chiaotzu , and Roshi arrive at the village , where Yurin confronts them . Yurin explains that she is a former classmate of Tien 's during his time at the Crane School and that she swore revenge on him after he left the school and refused to fight her . Meanwhile , Cabba sways Caulifla into joining Universe 6 's team by promising to teach her how to become a Super Saiyan . Back on Earth , while Goku , Chiaotzu , and Tien cure the students of their brainwashing , Roshi battles Yurin . He lowers his guard after catching a glimpse of Yurin 's panties , which allows her to brainwash him . The brainwashed Roshi quickly defeats Tien , but Goku intervenes . While Chiaotzu temporarily disables Yurin , Goku subdues Roshi with a Kamehameha and cures him of the brainwashing . Tien orders Yurin to apologize to everyone she hurt and offers her a place at his dojo . Tien decides to join the Tournament of Power because he believes that the 10 million Zeni Goku promised will repair the village . After hearing about the 10 million Zeni , Master Roshi quickly agrees to join as well . 90 14 `` See The Wall That Must Be Passed ! Goku vs Gohan '' `` Koerubeki kabe o misuete ! Gokū bāsasu Gohan '' ( 超える べき 壁 を 見据え て ! 悟空 VS 悟 飯 ) May 14 , 2017 TBA As Gohan finishes training with Piccolo , they go to meet with Goku , Master Roshi , and Tien . At Gohan 's request , Goku and Tien have a fight against Gohan and Piccolo to practice for the tournament . Although Tien views this as a practice match and wants to avoid injuring anyone , Gohan and Goku take the fight seriously . As Gohan fights both his father and Tien , Piccolo spends the time charging a strong technique , which ultimately destroys the mountain fighting stage when it is launched . Tien calls the match off on the grounds that the fighting stage is now destroyed . Although Goku agrees , Gohan requests to have a one - on - one fight against his father . Goku accepts , and Gohan powers up while Goku goes Super Saiyan 2 . Although Goku has the upper hand for much of the fight , Gohan turns the tables and begins to overpower Goku . Gohan begs Goku to use his full power . Goku responds by becoming a Super Saiyan Blue and using his Kaio - Ken technique , then defeats Gohan with a single blow . Impressed with his son 's improvement , Goku assigns Gohan as the leader of their Universe 7 team . Meanwhile , Rumsshi ( ラムーシ , Ramūshi ) recruits a powerful fighter named Murichim ( ムリチム , Murichimu ) and his companions to represent Universe 10 in the tournament . 91 15 `` Which Universe Will Survive ? ! The Strongest Warriors Are Gathering ! ! '' `` Kachinokoru no wa dono Uchū da ! ? Zokuzoku to tsudou Saikyō no senshi - tachi ! ! '' ( 勝ち残る の は どの 宇宙 だ ! ? 続々 と 集う 最強 の 戦士 たち ! ! ) May 21 , 2017 TBA The Zenō - samas are suffering from extreme boredom again . They decide to observe the universes ' progress in assembling their strongest warriors . In Universe 7 , Vegeta prepares to enter the Hyperbolic Time Chamber for some intense training . Goku spars with Whis in Vegeta 's gravity chamber . Master Roshi and Puar train to remove Roshi 's weakness to seduction techniques , which fails miserably . In Universe 9 , word has spread of the potential erasure of their universe . The populace has descended into anarchy . The three canine brothers have been unable to find any other fighters . In Universe 6 , Hit tracks down the destitute Frost and forces him to join the Tournament of Power , while he relieves him of his poison needles in the process . In Universe 11 , Toppo 's comrade Kahseral is delayed from joining when he aids a cat stuck in a tree . In Universe 2 , a magical girl named Brianne de Chateau ( ブリアン ・ デ ・ シャトー , Burian de Shatō ) transforms into her alter ego named Ribrianne ( リブリアン , Riburian ) and auditions for a spot in the tournament . In Universe 10 , Murichim and his comrades record a dance video to improve team spirit . Back in Universe 7 , Mr. Satan calls and unexpectedly reveals that Majin Buu has fallen into a deep sleep and can not join the tournament , which horrifies everyone . 92 16 `` Emergency Development ! The Incomplete Ten Members ! ! '' `` Kinkyū jitai hassei ! Sorowanai jū nin no menbā ! ! '' ( 緊急 事態 発生 ! そろわ ない 10 人 の メンバー ! ! ) May 28 , 2017 TBA Goku races to Mr. Satan 's house , where he proves unable to wake Majin Buu from his hibernation . Meanwhile , all of Universe 7 's remaining warriors except Master Roshi and No. 17 gather at the Capsule Corporation . After Krillin brings up the 10 million Zeni prize that Goku had bribed him , Piccolo and Gohan reveal to Krillin , No. 18 , and Tien that the prize of 10 million Zeni was a lie and that the universe will be erased if they lose . When Goku returns , Krillin berates him and threatens to withdraw from the team along with No. 18 . After Goku fails to convince them otherwise , Beerus swiftly threatens Krillin into staying , while Bulma agrees to pay out the promised reward . In Universe 6 , Cabba takes Caulifla to a deserted wasteland to teach her how to become a Super Saiyan . As Caulifla 's protégée , Kale ( ケール , Kēru ) , observes them , Cabba ineffectually attempts to provoke Caulifla in order to make her transform . When that fails , he teaches her to focus her energy on an area in her back . Caulifla successfully transforms into a Super Saiyan . Caulifla tests her newfound power and agrees to join Universe 6 's team for the Tournament of Power . She beckons Kale over to attempt the transformation herself . In Universe 11 , Kahseral arrives at the Pride Trooper headquarters , where he and Toppo agree to leave the universe in their trainees ' hands so they can participate in the tournament . In Universe 3 , two cyborg warriors named Nigrisshi ( ニグリシ , Nigrisshi ) and Narirama ( ナリラマ , Narirāma ) display their upgrades for the tournament to Universe 3 's God of Destruction Mosco ( モスコ , Mosuko ) , Supreme Kai Ea ( エア ) , and Angel Campari ( カンパーリ , Kanpāri ) . Back in Universe 7 , Goku and his friends are unable to figure out who can replace Buu . When Beerus claims they have no suitable fighters because Goku destroyed the Frieza Force , Goku is inspired to recruit Frieza , which shocks everyone . 93 17 `` You 're The Tenth Warrior ! Goku Goes To See Frieza ! ! '' `` Jū ninme no senshi wa omē da ! Gokū Furīza no moto e ! ! '' ( 10 人目 の 戦士 はお め え だ ! 悟空 フリーザ の も と へ ! ! ) June 4 , 2017 TBA Goku 's idea is met with much hesitance from his comrades . He explains that he intends to have Fortuneteller Baba resurrect Frieza for 24 hours to fight in the tournament . If Frieza betrays them then either he or Vegeta can defeat him . Goku 's friends reluctantly agree , and he sets out to the afterlife . The Universe 7 team are unaware that a spy from Universe 4 is observing them . In Universe 6 , Cabba and Caulifla attempt to teach Kale how to turn into a Super Saiyan but to no avail . Kale begins to despair over her own uselessness , and it enrages her enough to trigger her transformation into an extremely powerful Berserker Super Saiyan . Kale immediately goes berserk and attacks Cabba . Caulifla quickly deduces that Kale is jealous of her and Cabba 's perceived relationship . She denies having any sort of feelings for Cabba . Kale calms down and collapses in Caulifla 's arms . Cabba , who is impressed by Kale 's power , decides to add her to Universe 6 's team . Back in Universe 7 , Goku arrives in the afterlife and receives King Yemma 's permission to visit Frieza . He explains about the Tournament of Power and asks Frieza to join them . Frieza agrees to aid him on the condition that he be properly resurrected with Earth 's Dragon Balls . When Goku hesitates to agree , Frieza goads him by playing to his desire to see how powerful Frieza can become . Goku accepts his terms . In Universe 4 , Ganos ( ガノス , Ganosu ) reports Universe 7 's latest actions to Universe 4 's God of Destruction Quitela ( キテラ , Kitera ) and Supreme Kai Kuru ( クル ) . Quitela immediately begins making plans to counter Beerus . 94 18 `` The Emperor of Evil Returns ! A Reception of Mysterious Assassins ? ! '' `` Aku no Teiō fukkatsu ! Demukaeru Nazo no Shikaku - tachi ! ? '' ( 悪 の 帝王 復活 ! 出迎える 謎 の 刺客 たち ! ? ) June 11 , 2017 TBA Quitela contacts Universe 9 's God of Destruction Sidra ( シドラ , Shidora ) and informs him that Universe 7 is planning to use Frieza to assassinate their rivals before the tournament begins and that the only way to counter them is to kill them first . Sidra and Roh agree to have Frieza killed . Meanwhile , Goku returns to the Capsule Corporation to update everyone on his success . As Master Roshi completes his training at Korin 's tower , Krillin and No. 18 head to No. 17 's island to pick him up and drop off Goten , Trunks , and Marron . Goku goes to Fortuneteller Baba 's home , where she completes the ritual to resurrect Frieza . As Goku and Frieza prepare to depart , an army of assassins arrives to claim their heads . Despite the time pressure , Frieza wounds the assassins ' leader , transforms into his Golden form , and prepares for battle . 95 19 `` The Worst ! The Most Evil ! Frieza 's Rampage ! ! '' `` Saikyō ! Saiaku ! Furīza Ōabare ! ! '' ( 最 凶 ! 最悪 ! フリーザ 大 暴れ ! ! ) June 18 , 2017 TBA Frieza explains to Goku that he spent his recent incarceration in Hell undergoing intense mental training to overcome the stamina issues that plagued him during his previous battles with the Z - Fighters . He quickly slaughters most of the assassins , which horrifies Goku . The assassins ' leader , who has been directly empowered by Sidra , attacks Frieza with Sidra 's power , but Frieza manages to overcome and hijack the attack . Frieza spitefully uses the attack on Goku and traps him . Frieza tortures and kills the assassins until they reveal that Roh and Sidra hired them . Frieza contacts Universe 9 and offers his services as a defector . Roh and Sidra begin arguing about whether or not to accept him . Roh fears Frieza 's psychopathic and treasonous nature , while Sidra wants his power . Sidra is confident he could kill him if he stepped out of line . Their argument buys time for Beerus and Whis to arrive and rescue Goku . Frieza cuts the connection . He begins making plans to use the Tournament of Power to manipulate the gods to suit his own ends . Goku and Frieza have a brief sparring match , which ends in a draw . Goku , Frieza , Beerus , and Whis return to the Capsule Corporation . The Universe 7 team prepare to travel to the World of Void for the Tournament of Power . 96 20 `` The Time Is Here ! To The World Of Void For The Fate Of The Universe ! ! '' `` Toki wa kita ! Uchū no Meiun o kake Mu no Kai e ! ! '' ( 時 は きた ! 宇宙 の 命運 を かけ 無 の 界 へ ! ! ) June 25 , 2017 TBA In the World of Void , Universes 1 , 5 , and 8 's Gods of Destruction Iwne ( イワン , Iwan ) , Arack ( アラク , Araku ) , and Liquiir ( リキュール , Rikīru ) have a brief exhibition match to test the durability of the Tournament of Power 's fighting stage . Afterwards , the Great Priest forces them all to clean up their mess and fix the stage . In Universe 7 , Gohan and Shin 's strategy is to have the team members stick together to conserve energy and use strength of numbers to defeat anyone who attacks them . This suggestion offends Goku and Vegeta 's Saiyan pride . Whis transports the team to the World of Void . All of the other universes arrive . Frieza and Frost befriend each other and agree to work together , while Goku singles out Jiren as a potential rival due to his extreme power . As the Great Priest introduces each team , Universe 4 seemingly has only 8 warriors on their team , which confuses most of Universe 7 , except for Tien , who tells No. 18 that he can sense a faint presence . After a speech from the Zenō - samas , the 80 warriors prepare for battle . 97 21 `` Survive ! The Tournament of Power Begins at Last ! ! '' `` Ikinokore ! Tsui ni kaimaku Chikara no Taikai ! ! '' ( 生き残れ ! ついに 開幕 「 力 の 大会 」 ! ! ) July 2 , 2017 TBA The Great Priest reminds everyone of the rules and officially starts the tournament . A massive free - for - all ensues . Goku targets Toppo , but he is intercepted by Ganos . Disregarding Gohan 's plan as well , No. 17 , No. 18 , Vegeta , and Frieza all jump into the fray . Universe 3 gains an early advantage when Narirama unleashes a spinning attack designed to knock its opponents off the stage , but Hit and Basil disable it . Universe 10 's Lilibeu ( リリベウ , Ririberu ) attacks Basil , but Basil successfully knocks her off the stage . Meanwhile , the five Universe 7 warriors who stayed together are confronted by a gang of warriors from varying universes , but Universe 7 uses teamwork to fend them off . Basil nearly defeats Universe 10 's Napapa , but Napapa is able to push his attacks away at the last moment . As Goku is pursuing Toppo , he comes face to face with Jiren until Universe 4 's Nink ( ニンク , Ninku ) outflanks Goku by grappling and dragging him towards the edge of the stage with the intention of jumping off with him . Goku turns Super Saiyan Blue and knocks Nink off the stage . As Goku reverts back to his normal form to conserve energy , Basil , Lavender , Bergamo , and two other Universe 9 warriors surround him with 47 minutes remaining in the tournament . 98 22 `` Oh , Uncertainty ! A Universe Despairs ! ! '' `` Ā mujou ! Zetsubō suru Uchū ! ! '' ( あぁ 無常 ! 絶望 する 宇宙 ! ! ) July 9 , 2017 TBA Roh orders his warriors to attack Goku to avenge their defeat at the Zen Exhibition Match . Goku is forced to avoid fighting at his fullest in order to conserve stamina for later in the tournament . He fights Team Universe 9 , where the Trio de Dangers brothers manage to overwhelm him thanks to their teamwork . Vegeta notices Goku 's plight and reinforces him . Roh sends over three more fighters . Team Universe 9 is able to push Goku and Vegeta to the brink until Vegeta tricks Lavender and Hop ( ソレル , Hoppu ) into accidentally hitting each other . Goku and Vegeta take advantage of the confusion to defeat five of the Universe 9 warriors . No. 18 and Frieza each defeat Sorrel ( ソレル , Soreru ) and Roselle . Only Basil , Lavender , and Bergamo remain in the tournament for Team Universe 9 . Goku and Vegeta push them to the edge of the stage . The brothers use a combination beam as a last ditch effort , but Goku and Vegeta power up to Super Saiyan Blue and knock them off the stage with a Final Kamehameha . With all 10 members defeated , Universe 9 is eliminated from the tournament . As a result , the Zenō - samas erase Universe 9 , Roh , Sidra , and all of their fighters . This amuses Universe 9 's angel Mojito ( モヒイト , Mohi'ito ) and horrifies everyone else . 99 23 `` Show Them ! Krillin 's True Power ! ! '' `` Misetsukero ! Kuririn no sokojikara ! ! '' ( 見せつけろ ! クリリン の 底力 ! ! ) July 16 , 2017 TBA As the other warriors recover from the shock of Universe 9 's erasure , No. 17 reminds No. 18 that they have infinite stamina due to their cyborg bodies and have no reason to hold back . Vegeta tries to fight Hit , but he is blocked by Botamo , who is immune to damage . Vegeta manages to pick Botamo up and nearly throws him off the stage , but Magetta stops him at the last moment . Meanwhile , Universe 10 's Jium ( ジウム , Jiumu ) attacks Gohan and his friends . Jium is swiftly defeated by Master Roshi . Universe 4 's Shosa ( ショイサ , Shōsa ) tricks No. 18 into lowering her guard by faking his own death and nearly knocks her off the stage with a barrage of ki blasts . Krillin rescues No. 18 , and the two defeat Shosa with a powerful combination attack . They are challenged by Universe 4 's Majora ( マジョラ ) , who is a blind fighter that uses his powerful sense of smell to locate his enemies in battle . Although Majora proves to be stronger than Krillin , Krillin disables his nose by throwing his smelly shoe at him and knocks him off the stage . Krillin boasts about his victory , which allows Frost to knock him off with a single blow . Beerus and Shin berate Krillin for his carelessness with 43 minutes remaining in the tournament . 100 24 `` Out Of Control ! The Savage Berserker Awakens ! ! '' `` Daibōsō ! Mezame araburu Kyōsenshi ! ! '' ( 大 暴走 ! 目覚め 荒 ぶる 狂 戦士 ! ! ) July 23 , 2017 TBA As Universe 7 recovers from Krillin 's defeat , Cabba defeats Nigrisshi and Universe 10 's Murisam ( ムリサーム ) and confronts Vegeta . Hit blows off Narirama 's limbs and uses his time skip ability to dodge his ultimate attack . He flicks him off the stage . Meanwhile , Kale is disabled by Universe 10 's Napapa and Methiop ( メチオープ ) . They knock her unconscious and attempt to throw her off the stage , but Caulifla rescues her and defeats Napapa . The two confront Goku , and Caulifla knocks away Universe 2 's Jimeze ( ジーミズ , Jimizu ) and demands to know how to become a Super Saiyan Blue . Goku refuses , and Caulifla transforms into an Ultra Super Saiyan . However , her increased muscle mass cripples her speed and allows Goku to counterattack . With Goku 's aid , Caulifla manages to become a Super Saiyan 2 , and the two resume their fight . As Kale watches them , she is once again consumed by her feelings of uselessness and transforms into her Berserker Super Saiyan form . Hit uses his time skip to save Caulifla from getting caught in the crossfire . Kale flies into a jealous rage and attacks Goku for allegedly stealing Caulifla from her . Kale easily overwhelms Goku and forces him to power up to Super Saiyan Blue . He unleashes a powerful Kamehameha , but Kale powers through it unharmed . As Piccolo realizes she has lost control of her power , Kale begins firing ki blasts at everything in sight and defeats Methiop . When Universe 11 's Vuon ( ブーオン , Būon ) attempts to stop her , Kale defeats him as well . Jiren knocks her unconscious with a single ki blast . As Hit and Caulifla retreat with Kale , Goku challenges Jiren . 101 25 `` The Impending Warriors of Justice ! The Pride Troopers ! ! '' `` Semari kuru seigi no senshi ! Puraido Torūpāsu ! ! '' ( 迫り くる 正義 の 戦士 ! プライド ・ トルーパス ! ! ) July 30 , 2017 TBA As Goku prepares to fight Jiren , Toppo suddenly ambushes him with a barrage of ki blasts . Toppo and Jiren decide to retreat and conserve their stamina . This leaves Goku to be dealt with by Kahseral and their fellow Pride Troopers Tupper ( タッパー , Tappā ) , Zoiray ( ゾイレー , Zoirē ) , Cocotte ( ココット , Kokotto ) , and Kettol . The five declare their intent to defeat Caulifla and Kale to avenge Vuon 's defeat . The two are forced to form a temporary alliance with Goku . Meanwhile , Master Roshi and Tien team up to defeat Universe 3 's The Preecho ( ザ ・ プリーチョ ) . They regroup with Gohan , Piccolo , Vegeta , and Frieza , where he has defeated Murichim . The Pride Troopers push Goku , Caulifla , and Kale to the brink , but No. 17 and No. 18 rescue them . No. 18 and Goku defeat Tupper , while No. 17 easily overpowers Kahseral . The remaining Pride Troopers regroup and focus their assault on the wounded Caulifla and Kale . Cocotte seals them in a separate dimension to ensure that Goku , No. 17 , and No. 18 do not interfere . As the four beat Caulifla , Kale 's self - hatred causes her to return to the Berserker Super Saiyan form , but she remains in control of herself this time . Caulifla and Kale use an extremely powerful combination ki blast to defeat Kahseral , Zoiray , and Kettol . Cocotte seals herself in a mini-dimension to avoid the blast , but No. 18 simply throws it off , eliminating Cocotte . Goku allows Caulifla and Kale to retreat so he can fight them at their full strength after they rest . The group is unaware that Brianne is observing them . 102 26 `` The Power of Love Explodes ? ! Universe 2 's Little Witch Warriors ! ! '' `` Ai no chikara ga dai bakuhatsu ! ? dai ni uchu majo - kko senshi ! ! '' ( 愛 の 力 が 大 爆発 ! ? 第 2 宇宙 の 魔女 っ 子 戦士 ! ! ) August 6 , 2017 TBA Brianne and her companions Sanka Ku ( サンカ ・ クー , Sanka Kū ) and Su Roas ( スー ・ ロース , Sū Rōsu ) announce themselves to the other fighters and begin to transform into their magical girl alter - egos . No. 17 blasts them before they can transform , but Brianne , Goku , and Toppo berate him for his dishonorable tactics and browbeat him into allowing them to transform , much to Beerus ' dismay . They assume their alter - egos Ribrianne , Kakunsa ( カクンサ , Kakunsa ) , and Rozie ( ロージィ , Rōjī ) and barrage the arena with a powerful love - based attack that brainwashes some of the fighters . Universe 7 's mental discipline allows them to overcome its effects . Gohan 's group elects to split up and fight independently . Vegeta attacks Ribrianne , who counters with a rolling attack that knocks out Universe 10 's Jirasen ( ジラセン ) . Rozie attacks Goku with a flurry of blows that grows more powerful the longer she keeps it up , while Kakunsa battles No. 17 with her animalistic fighting style . No. 17 baits her into overextending herself and stuns her with a barrier . He attempts to knock her out of the stage , but her teammate Vikal ( ビカル , Bikaru ) rescues her . No. 17 decides to stop holding back and swiftly eliminates Vikal . He also eliminates Kakunsa with a powerful ki blast . Enraged by his actions , Ribrianne powers up and prepares to battle No. 17 . 103 27 `` Gohan , Show No Mercy ! Showdown With Universe 10 ! ! '' `` Gohan yo hijōnare ! Dai ju uchu to no kessen ! ! '' ( 悟 飯 よ 非情 なれ ! 第 10 宇宙 と の 決戦 ! ! ) August 13 , 2017 TBA Ribrianne and No. 17 fiercely attack each other , while Rozie begins to overwhelm Goku 's defenses . She surrounds him with ki balls and attempts to blow him up , but No. 17 protects him with a barrier . Goku , who has studied Rozie 's techniques , hits her with a powerful ki blast . As he and No. 17 corner Rozie and Ribrianne , Jimeze arrives and rescues them with instant transmission . Elsewhere , Botamo challenges Gohan on Champa 's orders . As Piccolo and Goku observe , Gohan attacks with a flurry of blows , which apparently have no effect . However , Gohan 's attacks begin to lift Botamo off the ground and renders him unable to defend himself , allowing Gohan to knock him off the stage . Universe 10 's Obuni ( オブニ ) and Rubalt ( ルバルト , Rubaruto ) appear to challenge Gohan and Piccolo . Jimeze defeats Universe 10 's Jilcol ( ジルコル Jirukoru ) . With 8 warriors eliminated , Gowasu accepts his imminent demise , while Rumsshi remains defiant . Obuni shifts his ki away from his body to render himself impossible to detect and wounds Gohan . Rubalt initially has the upper hand against Piccolo , but Piccolo uses his Hellzone Grenade attack to knock out Rubalt , leaving Universe 10 with only Obuni . Obuni begins to overwhelm Gohan , which makes Gowasu want to cling to life again . Gohan powers up and powers through one of Obuni 's punches . He counterattacks Obuni 's moves by locating and hitting Obuni after he gets hit . Obuni pauses the fight to show his respect for Gohan , but refuses to lose for the sake of Universe 10 . Gohan battles and defeats Obuni with a Kamehameha . All of Universe 10 's fighters have been eliminated . Right before Universe 10 is annihilated , Gohan discovers a locket containing a picture of Obuni and his wife and child . Gohan and Universe 10 's angel , Cus ( クス , Kusu ) , mourn Universe 10 's erasure . 104 28 `` The Ultimate High Speed Battle Begins ! Goku and Hit Join Forces ! ! '' `` Chōzetsu kōsoku batoru boppatsu ! Gokū to hitto no kyōdō sensen ! ! '' ( 超絶 光速 バトル 勃発 ! 悟空 と ヒット の 共同 戦線 ! ! ) August 20 , 2017 TBA Dyspo challenges Hit and uses his incredible speed to overwhelm Hit 's Time Skip . Everyone quickly deduces that Dyspo is listening for the sound of Hit 's body tensing up to determine when he is about to attempt to use Time Skip . Hit resorts to fighting him conventionally , but he is pushed to the edge of the stage . Toppo deduces that Hit has adjusted to Dyspo 's fighting style and is luring him into a trap . Toppo sends fellow pride trooper Kunshi ( クンシー , Kunshī ) to back him up . Before Dyspo can land the finishing blow , Hit suddenly turns intangible and sends Dyspo over the edge . However , Kunshi uses ropes made of his energy to pull Dyspo back onto the stage before he is eliminated . The two launch a renewed assault against Hit and drive him into a corner . Before they can finish him off , Goku interferes and rescues Hit . Goku uses his Super Saiyan God form to counter Dyspo 's speed , while Hit uses his assassination technique to injure Kunshi . The two switch places . Hit uses a fake Time Skip to throw Dyspo off and wound him , while Goku overwhelms Kunshi with his Super Saiyan Blue form . Hit attempts to eliminate Dyspo , but Kunshi rescues him again . Kunshi charges Hit , who turns intangible and knocks him off the stage . Dyspo retreats and regroups with his allies . Toppo abandons all notions of justice and decides to focus on survival . Hit decides not to battle Goku as thanks for lending a hand . Goku and Hit vow to settle the score if they both make it to the end of the tournament . 105 29 `` A Desperate Battle ! Master Roshi 's Sacrifice ! ! '' `` Funsen ! Mutenroshi inochi o Moyasu ! ! '' ( 奮戦 ! 武 天 老師 命 を 燃やす ! ! ) August 27 , 2017 TBA Master Roshi quietly observes the battles from afar . He is challenged by an attractive warrior from Universe 4 , Caway ( キャウェイ , Kyauei ) , who attempts to seduce him . However , Caway 's attempts to attack him brings him back to his senses . Roshi destroys her energy weapon , powers up , and drives her to jump off the stage . Roshi is next challenged by Dercori ( ダーコリ , Dākori ) , who is a talisman - wielding warrior from Universe 4 . She uses her talismans to confound Roshi with illusions and trap him in a single spot . Roshi uses the Evil Containment Wave to seal her in a small bottle and throw her off the arena . Quitela and Beerus get into an argument about the legality of the move , which is defused when both Zenō - samas rule in Roshi 's favor . Ganos , who is enraged at Roshi for eliminating his friends , challenges him and powers up into an avian form . Initially , Roshi is able to use his experience to predict , evade , and counter Ganos ' attacks . However , Ganos is able to grow more powerful the longer a fight drags on . He rallies and delivers a fierce series of blows to Roshi . Roshi attempts to hypnotize Ganos into falling asleep , but he attacks himself to wake himself up . Ganos demands that Roshi accept his limits and give up , but Roshi refuses . He unleashes a Max Power Kamehameha that defeats Ganos . However , the effort is too much for Roshi 's body to handle , and he collapses . Goku races over to him and successfully defibrillates him with his ki . Goku escorts Roshi to safety . 106 30 `` Find Him ! Death Match With An Invisible Attacker ! ! '' `` Mikiwamero ! Sugata naki atakkā to no shitō ! ! '' ( 見極めろ ! 姿 なき アタッカー と の 死闘 ! ! ) September 3 , 2017 TBA Goku brings Master Roshi to an isolated part of the stage and leaves him to rest at his request . Gohan and Piccolo are confronted by Universe 6 's Dr. Rota ( Dr. ロタ , Dokutā Rota ) , but Rota is shot down by a sniper before he can reveal his ability . Gohan and Piccolo are unable to find the location of the sniper until they find a red orb on the ground . It is revealed that the sniper , Universe 2 's Prum ( プラン , Puran ) , can see through these orbs . The lasers ricochet off of the orbs so that his true location is a secret . Piccolo tries to create a smokescreen in order to blur the vision , but Prum can still see them via their heat signatures . Prum shoots Piccolo and destroys both of his arms , which forces him to painfully regenerate them . Gohan and Piccolo realize that the orbs depend on heat signatures and blast the surrounding area to create multiple heat signatures . Prum responds by coming out of his hiding spot and blasting the entire area . Gohan and Piccolo are forced into hiding . Tien analyzes Dr. Rota and deduces that he was hit by a sniper as Goku and Vegeta arrive . Vegeta berates Tien , who warns them about Prum , but Vegeta arrogantly brushes it off until he is almost incapacitated by one of Prum 's blasts . As Goku and Tien observe Prum , they deduce that there is another shooter from behind as Prum is merely reflecting the blasts . Vegeta and Goku go after Prum , while Tien goes to save Gohan and Piccolo . Goku and Vegeta try to attack Prum , but their ki blasts are reflected off of his body . Tien navigates through the field of blasts and confronts the true sniper , Prum 's teammate Hermila ( ハーミラ , Hāmira ) . Realizing that Prum can deflect ki blasts and not physical attacks , Vegeta and Goku throw giant boulders at him . Tien uses his Multi-form technique in order to buy himself time against Hermila , but three of his clones are shot down . The fourth and final Tien defeats Hermila . Just as Tien is about to eliminate him , Hermila shoots the ground underneath Tien 's feet and knocks him off the stage . However , Tien 's other three clones come back and drag Hermila down with them . Tien and Hermila are eliminated from the tournament . Although Beerus praises Tien for forcing the battle into a draw , Tien is noticeably upset about being defeated . As Prum is confronted by Vegeta , Dr. Rota comes back and attacks Prum as revenge for shooting him . Shortly after , Vegeta eliminates Prum and Dr. Rota from the tournament . 107 31 `` Revenge `` F '' The Cunning Trap ? ! '' `` Fukushū no Efu ! Shikakerareta Kōkatsu na Wana ! ? '' ( 復讐 の 「 F 」 ! しかけ られ た 狡猾 な 罠 ! ? ) September 17 , 2017 TBA Frost recalls how Champa promised to pardon his crimes if he humiliated and defeated Universe 7 . Elsewhere , Universe 3 's Maji Kayo confronts Universe 11 's remaining warriors . He entraps Dyspo with his liquid body , but Jiren effortlessly defeats him with a single blow . As Master Roshi attempts to recover from his previous fights , Frost corners and attacks him . Goku sees this and tries to rush to his aid , but he is confronted by Ribrianne . Roshi hits Frost with a flurry of blows and attempts to use the Evil Containment Wave , but the strain proves too much for him . He flubs the attack . Frost barrages Roshi with ki blasts and sends an attack towards Vegeta , which provokes him . Vegeta interferes before Frost can finish Roshi . Magetta arrives to reinforce Frost , and the two battle Vegeta . Frost goads Roshi into using the Evil Containment Wave on Magetta despite the risk of killing himself . When Roshi falls for it , Frost reflects the attack and seals Vegeta into a bottle . With the last of his strength , Roshi uses a small ki blast to destroy the bottle and free Vegeta . Vegeta immediately turns Super Saiyan Blue , and Frost flees . Vegeta knocks Magetta off the stage and tells Roshi to drop out so he can receive medical attention . Roshi jumps off the stage , and he is given a Senzu Bean . Beerus admits that Roshi has earned his respect . 108 32 `` Frieza and Frost ! Conjoined Malice ? ! '' `` Furīza to Furosuto ! Majiwaru Akui ! ? '' ( フリーザ と フロスト ! 交わる 悪意 ! ? ) September 24 , 2017 TBA As Goku battles Ribrianne , the gods of the top four universes speculate on who will win the tournament . Meanwhile , Gohan is confronted by Jimeze . Jimeze makes use of his Instant Transmission technique to confound and damage Gohan . As he prepares to finish him , Frieza intervenes . When Frieza does not immediately attack Jimeze , Universe 7 's spectators speculate he may intend to betray and defeat Gohan so he can seize the wish on the Super Dragon Balls for himself . Frieza steps aside and allows Jimeze to continue his fight with Gohan . Jimeze corners Gohan again and attempts to finish him , but Frieza destroys his attack with a ki blast . Enraged , Jimeze attacks Frieza , who swiftly tortures and eliminates him . Frost appears and declares his intention to defeat Gohan , and Frieza admits that the two intend to work together in order to exact revenge on the Saiyans . Frieza battles Gohan , who counterattacks . Frieza uses his Golden form to knock out Gohan . However , instead of eliminating him , he double - crosses and eliminates Frost . Gohan admits that he immediately figured out Frieza 's plan and played along with him . An enraged Frost attempts to attack Frieza from the spectator stands , but Zenō - sama erases him , who explains this is forbidden and Universe 6 would be erased upon a second offence . Meanwhile , Goku continues to battle Ribrianne . 109 33 `` The Ultimate Enemy Approaches Goku ! Now , Let Loose ! The Killer Spirit Bomb ! ! '' `` Goku ni Semaru Saikyo no Teki ! Ima Koso Hanate ! Hisassu no Genki - Dama ! ! '' ( 悟空 に 迫る 最強 の 敵 ! 今 こそ 放 て ! 必殺 の 元気 玉 ! ! ) October 8 , 2017 TBA Ribrianne declares her intention to use the wish to become a love goddess adored by all beings using the Super Dragon Balls . Goku considers using the wish to benefit his family or meet a strong opponent . Ribrianne absorbs the love of her teammates and becomes Super Ribrianne . She attacks Goku with several ki blasts , and he counters by turning Super Saiyan Blue and knocking her away . Ribrianne lands near Jiren , and Goku sees him and prepares to finally battle him . Universe 11 's God of Destruction , Belmod , telepathically orders Jiren to defeat Goku . Belmod hopes to demoralize the other universes by defeating the strongest fighter besides Jiren himself . Goku powers up to Super Saiyan Blue Kaioken x20 , but that proves to be no match for Jiren 's overwhelming power . Goku begins powering up a Spirit Bomb , and all of his teammates except Vegeta lend him their energy . Despite the time it takes to charge the attack , Jiren agrees to wait for him to complete it . Ribrianne attempts to attack Goku from behind , but she is stopped by Vegeta . Goku completes the Spirit Bomb and throws it , but Jiren deflects it . The two engage in a struggle to take control of the Spirit Bomb . This forces Goku to use Super Saiyan Blue Kaioken x20 to keep up . However , Jiren prevails and begins to overwhelm Goku with his own attack . 110 34 `` Son Goku Wakes ! New Level of the Awakened ! ! '' `` Son Gokū kakusei ! Mezameshi mono no aratanaru gokui ! ! '' ( 孫悟空 覚醒 ! 目覚め し 者 の 新た なる 極意 ! ! ) October 8 , 2017 TBA Goku rallies himself and pushes the Spirit Bomb back towards Jiren , which locks him in a stalemate . Whis realizes that Jiren is at least as powerful as a God of Destruction . As the two struggle to overpower each other , the Spirit Bomb suddenly condenses into a small black ball , which absorbs Goku and causes him to vanish . The Great Priest rules that since Goku 's own attack apparently vaporized him , Jiren will not be disqualified for destroying him . As the Zenō - samas prepare to eliminate Goku , he suddenly reappears and reaches a new level of power . Goku resumes the fight , and he is able to go toe - to - toe with Jiren . Whis theorizes Goku must have absorbed the Spirit Bomb and unlocked an ability called Ultra Instinct ( 身勝手 の 極意 , Migatte no Goku'i ' ) . Goku uses another powerful attack in an attempt to eliminate Jiren , but he fails and exhausts his newfound power . Jiren knocks him away , and Hit attempts to take advantage of the opportunity and attacks Jiren . Vegeta demands to know what happened to Goku before preparing to fight Ribrianne , while Frieza appears to corner Goku and aim an attack at him . 111 35 `` The Surreal Supreme Battle ! Hit vs Jiren ! ! '' `` I jigen no kyokuchi batoru ! Hitto basasu Jiren ! ! '' ( 異 次元 の 極致 バトル ! ヒット VS ジレン ! ! ) October 15 , 2017 TBA Instead of killing the defenseless Goku , Frieza shares with him some of his energy and repays his act of mercy during their fight on Planet Namek . Meanwhile , Hit uses his time - skip powers against Jiren , but his attacks fail to connect . Goku spectates the battle , but he is ambushed by Saonel ( サオネル , Saoneru ) and Pirina ( ピリナ , Pirina ) , Namekians from Universe 6 , who are confronted by Gohan and Piccolo . Elsewhere , Vegeta fights Ribrianne , and he is easily overpowering her in his base form until Rozie interferes and retreats with Ribrianne . Ribrianne loses hope due to the gap in power , but Rozie motivates her . Meanwhile , Hit keeps attacking Jiren to no avail , but he is able to react and block most of Jiren 's punches . After being knocked back , Hit sneaks up behind Jiren and lands a strong punch on his heart . He knocks Jiren to the edge of the ring after a brief struggle . Hit uses his own time - skip powers continually on Jiren to stop his movement . Realizing that he can not hold Jiren for long , Hit urges Cabba , Caulifla , and Kale to keep fighting for Universe 6 . Hit pools all his energy in a final attack to defeat him , but Jiren stops Hit 's attack only with his glare . Jiren breaks free and eliminates Hit . As the Tournament of Power reaches its midway point , Jiren begins to meditate . He is certain that there are no other warriors strong enough to fight him . Jiren leaves the fight to Toppo and Dyspo . Viara ( ビアラ , Biara ) and Katopesla ( カトペスラ , Katopesura ) of Universe 3 attempt to attack him while meditating , but Jiren 's energy alone is enough to push them back . 112 36 `` A Saiyan 's Vow ! Vegeta 's Resolution ! ! '' `` Saiya - jin no chikai ! Bejīta no kakugo ! ! '' ( サイヤ 人 の 誓い ! ベジータ の 覚悟 ! ! ) October 22 , 2017 TBA Despite his exhaustion and low energy , Goku is determined to keep fighting . However , he is suddenly targeted by Koitsukai ( コイツカイ , Koitukai ) , Panchia ( パンチア , Panchia ) , and Bollarator ( ボラレータ , Borarēta ) of Universe 3 . Gohan and Piccolo want to help him , but they are distracted by their own battle with Saonel and Pilina . Caulifla and Kale are discussing the battle between Goku and Jiren , when they are confronted by Monna ( モンナ , Monna ) , a female warrior from Universe 4 . Caulifla faces off against Monna , but Cabba appears and takes her place . He instructs Caulifla and Kale to retreat for now . Cabba turns Super Saiyan and battles Monna , but he is initially overpowered . Monna almost knocks Cabba off the stage , but Vegeta intervenes and catches him before he can fall . Vegeta and Cabba both promise that , if either of them wins the tournament , the winner will use the Super Dragon Balls to restore the other 's erased universe and its inhabitants . Newly inspired , Cabba fights Monna again , but he is losing until he taps into his anger and unlocks Super Saiyan 2 . With his new power , Cabba easily defeats and eliminates Monna . However , Frieza appears , fights Cabba , and easily eliminates him as well . Frieza reveals that he plans to win the tournament in order to use the Super Dragon Balls to control the gods . Meanwhile , Vegeta decides to challenge Jiren , but he is intercepted by Toppo . The two battle each other . Vegeta ends up meeting up with Goku , who is still having difficulty with his three opponents . However , Caulifla intervenes and knocks Koitsukai , Borareta , and Pancea away before powering up to Super Saiyan 2 and challenging Goku herself . 113 37 `` With Great Joy ! The Repeat Battle - Crazy Saiyan Fight ! ! '' `` Kiki to Shite ! Sentō - kyō Saiya - jin Batoru Futatabi ! ! '' ( 嬉々 として ! 戦闘 狂 サイヤ 人 バトル 再び ! ! ) October 29 , 2017 TBA Caulifla demands that Goku fight her and teach her how to unlock Super Saiyan 3 so that she can become strong enough to win the tournament . She begins fighting Goku , who does not initially power up beyond his base form . However , Goku 's superior martial arts skills allow him to keep up with her even in her Super Saiyan 2 form . Eventually , she is able to adapt to his moves , which forces Goku to power up to Super Saiyan 2 himself . The two of them fight evenly for some time . Goku later calls in Kale to join the battle . His superior power and skill enables him to fight them both at once , but they are able to match him by working together . They land a massive combined attack on him , but Goku powers up to Super Saiyan 3 and easily deflects their attacks . However , Goku lacks the stamina to maintain that form and reverts to Super Saiyan 2 . Kale 's desire to become stronger inadvertently causes her to transform into her Berserker Super Saiyan form again . 114 38 `` Intimidating Passion ! The Birth of a New Super Warrior ! ! '' `` Kiki semaru ! Aratana chō sen - shi no bakutan ! ! '' ( 鬼気 せまる ! 新た な 超 戦士 の 爆誕 ! ! ) November 5 , 2017 TBA Vegeta continues his battle with Toppo , while Caulifla is able to help Kale regain control of her Berserker form . Caulifla and Kale battle Goku together and are able to hold him off . Meanwhile , Frieza is confronted by Katopesla , but they are interrupted by Goku 's battle with Caulifla and Kale . Frieza wants to fight Caulifla and Kale , but Goku insists that he will fight them himself . Frieza backs down and watches the fight . The three Saiyans resume their battle . After unsuccessfully attempting to use Instant Transmission as a strategy , Goku powers up to his Super Saiyan God form and easily overpowers the two of them . As Goku prepares to eliminate Caulifla and Kale with a powerful Kamehameha , it is revealed that the girls were given a pair of Potara earrings by Fuwa , Universe 6 's Supreme Kai . They use the earrings and fuse to become a single being with immense power , who takes the name Kefla ( ケフラ , Kefura ) . 115 39 `` Goku VS Kefla ! Super Saiyan Blue Defeated ? ! '' `` Gokū vāsasu Kefura ! Sūpāsaiya - jin Burū Yabureru ! ? '' ( 悟空 VS ケフラ ! 超 サイヤ 人 ブルー 敗れる ! ? ) November 12 , 2017 TBA As Vegeta continues to fight Toppo , Gohan and Piccolo are engaged with Saonel and Pirina . No. 18 is attacked by Katopesla , but she is saved by No. 17 . Meanwhile , Goku continues his fight with Kefla . The Zenōs approve Kefla 's use of the Potara earrings . The other universes consider giving the Potara to their warriors as well . Pell ( ペル , Peru ) , the Supreme Kai of Universe 2 , gives his Potara to Rabanra ( ラバンラ , Rabanra ) and Zarbuto ( ザーブト , Zābuto ) , but the earrings are destroyed by Kefla charging through them to continue fighting Goku . The battle becomes intense with Kefla gaining the upper hand . Goku powers up to Super Saiyan Blue , but Kefla counters by powering up to Super Saiyan . However , Goku uses the Kaio - ken and regains the advantage . He appears to be winning , but Kefla lands a sneak attack that knocks him out of Super Saiyan Blue . She prepares to eliminate him , but Goku unexpectedly reawakens Ultra Instinct again and easily dodges her attacks . 116 40 `` The Sign of a Comeback ! Ultra Instinct 's Huge Explosion ! ! '' `` Gyakuten no kizashi ! Migatte no gokui ga dai bakuhatsu ! ! '' ( 逆転 の 兆し ! 身勝手 の 極意 が 大 爆発 ! ! ) November 19 , 2017 TBA To counter Goku 's increase in power , Kefla powers up to Super Saiyan 2 , and the two of them face off . Goku still easily dodges Kefla 's attacks , but his own attacks are not enough to take her down . When Goku launches his attacks , it interferes with his concentration and prevents him from using Ultra Instinct to its full potential . Jiren senses the energy from their battle , which prompts him to awaken from his meditation and rejoin Toppo and Dyspo . Vegeta realizes that Ultra Instinct is the level of skill that Whis was training him and Goku to attain . Vegeta decides that he must reach it too . Goku begins running low on stamina . He declares that he will end the fight with his next attack . Kefla panics and unleashes a multitude of deadly energy beams . Her ultimate attack devastates the ring , but Goku easily dodges her blasts while charging a Kamehameha . Goku jumps into the air . Kefla focuses all of her power into a single blast and launches it at him . She takes advantage of his apparent inability to dodge . However , he back flips and uses the charge up energy to slide over her attack and launches his Kamehameha at point - blank range . Goku blasts Kefla out of the ring and eliminates her . Her Potara earrings shatter , and she splits back into Kale and Caulifla . With both of them eliminated , Saonel and Pirina are the only remaining warriors from Team Universe 6 . NOTE : This episode is dedicated in memory of Hiromi Tsuru , who passed away on November 16 , 2017 . 117 41 `` Showdown of Love ! Androids VS Universe 2 ! ! '' `` Ai no daikessen ! Jinzōningen VS Dai ni uchū ! ! '' ( 愛 の 大 決戦 ! 人造 人間 VS 第 2 宇宙 ! ! ) November 26 , 2017 TBA Goku is left exhausted from his battle with Kefla . He is confronted by all five remaining warriors from Universe 2 . Gohan and Piccolo try to help him , but they are intercepted by Saonel and Pirina . Elsewhere , Vegeta faces off against Katopesla and tries to unlock Ultra Instinct against him . However , he is unsuccessful and resorts to his normal fighting style . Vegeta easily overpowers Katopesla . Rozie and Ribrianne launch a combined attack at Goku , but No. 17 and No. 18 arrive in time to deflect it . The androids battle Rozie and Ribrianne . No. 17 defeats and eliminates Rozie , while No. 18 knocks Ribrianne out of her powered - up transformation . This causes her to revert into Brianne . Brianne is able to catch No. 18 in an energy trap , while her comrades from Universe 2 send their love to her . This allows Brianne to transform into a giant manifestation version of her Super Ribrianne form . No. 18 almost gives up until her love for Krillin and Marron gives her the determination to break free of Ribrianne 's trap . With No. 17 's help , No. 18 blasts through Ribrianne 's giant form and eliminates her . Brianne realizes that she lost because of No. 18 's strong love for Krillin , while Goku faces off against Zirloin ( ザーロイン , Zāroin ) , Zarbuto , and Rabanra of Universe 2 . 118 42 `` Accelerated Tragedy Vanishing Universes ... '' `` Kasokusuru Higeki Kieyuku Uchū ... '' ( 加速 する 悲劇 消え ゆく 宇宙 ... ) December 3 , 2017 TBA Goku battles against Zirloin , Zarbuto , and Rabanra from Universe 2 , while Gohan and Piccolo are fighting against Saonel and Pirina . Saonel and Pirina 's power suddenly increases , and it is revealed that they had each fused with many Namekians from their universe before coming to the tournament , which greatly increased their own powers . No. 17 and No. 18 join Goku to help in the battle against the remaining Universe 2 warriors . It is revealed that Universe 2 's angel , Sour ( サワア , Sawaa ) , has been broadcasting the tournament to the populace of their universe . Universe 2 's inhabitants channel their love to Zirloin , Zarbuto , and Rabanra , who are able to transform into forms similar to Ribrianne , Rozie , and Kakunsa 's transformed states . Goku , No. 17 , and No. 18 battle Zirloin , Zarbuto , and Rabanra , while Gohan and Piccolo continue fighting Saonel and Pirina . The Universe 2 trio unleash a legendary Universe 2 technique , the Pretty Black Hole , which traps and threatens to sink Goku , No. 17 , and No. 18 through the fighting stage . Goku powers up to Super Saiyan Blue and breaks through the Pretty Black Hole with a Kamehameha that eliminates Zirloin , Zarbuto , and Rabanra , while Gohan and Piccolo blast Saonel and Pirina off the ring with a powerful combined attack that eliminates them as well . With all of their fighters eliminated , both Universe 2 and Universe 6 are erased . Brianne leads the Universe 2 team in a final happy moment before their erasure , while Cabba wishes Vegeta good luck . Champa taunts Beerus before being erased . Beerus remains impassive in the face of his brother 's erasure . Vegeta faces off against Katopesla and warns him that he is in a bad mood . 119 43 `` Unavoidable ? ! The Fierce Stealth Attack ! ! '' `` Kaihi funō ! ? Suterusu kōgeki no mōi ! ! '' ( 回避 不能 ! ? ステルス 攻撃 の 猛威 ! ! ) December 10 , 2017 TBA Vegeta overpowers Katopesla and drives him to the edge of the ring . Katopesla is able to catch himself , but he is pushed over the edge and eliminated by an unseen force . Vegeta and Gohan are attacked by the same force , but Vegeta is able to stop himself from going over the edge , while Piccolo catches Gohan . No. 18 is attacked by the invisible fighter , who is revealed to be one of the missing Universe 4 fighters , Gamisaras ( ガミサラス , Gamisarasu ) . Gohan creates a cloud of dust that coats Gamisaras , which allows Piccolo to see him and then easily eliminates Gamisaras . Undaunted , Quitela orders the remaining Universe 4 fighters to step up their game . Shantza ( シャンツァ , Shantsa ) generates a dome that envelops the Universe 7 team and manifests illusions of the defeated fighters from the erased universes . However , Piccolo spots Shantza and blasts him off the ring , which eliminates him and destroys the illusions . Universe 4 's last fighter , Damon ( ダモン , Damon ) , is also assumed to be invisible since no one can see him . Piccolo is able to sense Damon 's attacks , but he proves unable to hit Damon , who knocks him out of the ring and eliminates him . No. 17 discovers the truth and exposes Damon as a tiny bug - like creature rather than an invisible person , which explains why none of the fighters were able to hit him . To solve this problem , Goku repeatedly punches the ring and creates shock waves that launch Damon into the air , which cancels out his agility and allows No. 17 to hit him with energy blasts . No. 17 traps Damon in a miniature force field and kicks him out of the ring to eliminate him . With all of their fighters eliminated , Universe 4 is promptly erased . 120 44 `` The Perfect Survival Tactic ! Universe 3 's Menacing Assassin ! ! '' `` Kanpeki na Seizon Senryaku ! Dai san Uchū Kyōi no Shikaku ! ! '' ( 完璧 なる 生存 戦略 ! 第 3 宇宙 脅威 の 刺客 ! ! ) December 17 , 2017 TBA Following the elimination of Universe 4 , the remaining fighters from Universe 3 take the offensive against Universe 7 . While Viara is defeated and eliminated by No. 17 and No. 18 's combined efforts , Paparoni ( パパロニ , Paparoni ) sends Panchia , Koitsukai , and Bollarator to attack Goku , Gohan , and Vegeta . To help Goku and Vegeta save their energy to confront Universe 11 , Gohan decides to face the three robots alone . He gains the upper hand until Paparoni has them combine together into a much stronger robot called Koichiarator ( コイチアレータ , Koichiarēta ) . Koichiarator overpowers Gohan until Goku and Vegeta step in . The two distract the enemy , while Gohan charges and strikes with an attack powerful enough to defeat it . With his robots defeated , Paparoni refuses to surrender and declares that he will unleash his trump card on Universe 7 . 121 45 `` All - Out War ! The Ultimate Quadruple Merge vs Universe 7 's Full - Scale Attack ! ! '' `` Sōryokusen ! Kyūkoku no Yontai Gattai VS Dai nana Uchū Sōkōgeki ! ! '' ( 総力 戦 ! 究極 の 4 体 合体 VS 第 7 宇宙 総 攻撃 ! ! ) December 24 , 2017 TBA Paparoni and Koichiarator merge to form Anilaza ( アニラーザ , Anirāza ) , the most powerful warrior from Universe 3 . Anilaza begins to overwhelm the Saiyans , which forces No. 17 and No. 18 to reinforce them . The five attempt to coordinate their attacks to catch Anilaza off - guard , but he deflects them all . It is revealed that Anilaza can use echolocation to detect his opponents ' movements . Anilaza begins teleporting his punches , and he nearly knocks Goku off the stage until Frieza steps in and knocks him back into the arena . Realizing that the Universe 7 warriors will rescue each other from defeat , Anilaza attempts to eat No. 18 , who is rescued by Goku . Anilaza corners No. 17 and overwhelms him . He knocks him off the fighting stage , but No. 18 sacrifices herself to kick No. 17 back onto the fighting stage . She is eliminated from the tournament . With no other options , the Universe 7 warriors power up to their maximum levels and engage in a ki clash with Anilaza . They buy time for No. 17 to pierce through Anilaza 's attack and damage his energy reactor . This enables the others to overwhelm and eliminate Anilaza . With all of their warriors eliminated , Universe 3 is erased . As the Universe 7 warriors begin to celebrate , the remaining Universe 11 warriors step forward to challenge them . 122 46 `` For One 's Own Pride ! Vegeta 's Challenge to Be The Strongest ! ! '' `` Onore no Hokori wo Kakete ! Bejīta Saikyō he no Chōsen ! ! '' ( 己 の 誇り を かけ て ! ベジータ 最強 へ の 挑戦 ! ! ) January 7 , 2018 TBA With only two universes remaining , the Great Priest compresses the bleachers so that everyone is brought together . The final warriors begin to fight each other . Gohan and No. 17 battle Toppo . Frieza fights Dyspo . Goku and Vegeta battle Jiren . Jiren overwhelms Goku with a flurry of punches . Vegeta analyzes his patterns and dodges his attacks . He lands a solid blow to Jiren 's midsection . Jiren counters with a powerful blast that nearly rings Vegeta out . Meanwhile , Frieza blocks one of Dyspo 's attacks with his tail , but Dyspo uses it as leverage to injure him . Jiren disparages Vegeta for his self - righteousness , but Vegeta declares that it is the source of his strength . He powers up a Final Flash and goads Jiren into taking it head - on . However , the attack fails to damage Jiren , who acknowledges the power of Vegeta 's attack before incapacitating him . 123 47 `` Body and Soul , Full Power Release ! Goku and Vegeta ! ! '' January 14 , 2018 TBA