The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon originates from NBC Studio 6 - B at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in New York City , the original home of The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson , where it is taped every weekday at 5pm . The studio housed both Carson and his predecessor , Jack Paar , before the franchise 's move to Burbank in 1972 . `` It is where The Tonight Show started -- actually in the studio where we are going to be , that 's where Johnny Carson was , there 's Broadway , there 's Times Square , there 's something glamorous about it . That is The Tonight Show , '' Fallon remarked . NBC spent approximately $5 million renovating Studio 6 - B , where Fallon had been taping Late Night , for The Tonight Show 's return to New York City . The upgraded 6 - B contains improved acoustics and a seating capacity of around 240 , up from 189 , but smaller than the seating capacity of The Late Late Show . The investment also included a new control room and a new lobby to welcome guests . The larger audience also meant NBC could take advantage of a newly enacted New York state tax credit for talk shows that are `` filmed before a studio audience of at least 200 , as long as they carry a production budget of at least $30 million and have been shot outside New York for at least five seasons . '' Fallon 's Late Night successor , Seth Meyers , is housed directly above his studio in Studio 8 - G ; the combination created logistical challenges for executives , who were concerned about `` sound bleed '' ( as the building was built with steel girders , sound is too easily conducted floor to floor ) . As a result , The Tonight Show tapes at 5 : 00pm , and Meyers ' show tapes later in the evening , at 6 : 30pm . Additionally , because of The Roots ' still active tour schedule , The Tonight Show tapes two shows on Thursday at New York , one for Thursday night 's airing , and one for Friday night 's airing . However , the show still tapes daily Monday through Wednesday throughout the week . Occasionally , they will tape a show on Friday for Friday night 's show , but it is more common that they will tape two shows on Thursday .