No . Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code US viewers ( millions ) `` The Resurrection '' Salim Akil Salim Akil January 16 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 16 ) T43. 10001 2.31 After his older daughter Anissa is arrested for protesting , high school principal and former superhero Jefferson Pierce is again pulled over for a crime he did not commit . The last straw comes when his youngest daughter , Jennifer , gets in trouble at a club owned by a gang called the `` 100 '' and he is forced to use his powers to rescue her . Peter Gambi , his mentor and friend , urges him to become Black Lightning again , but Jefferson refuses to break the promise he made to his ex-wife , Lynn , to give up heroics in hopes of reconciling with her . A 100 gangbanger named Will and his friends abduct Jennifer and Anissa despite an agreement between Jefferson and the gang . Lynn temporarily frees him from his promise in order to save their daughters . With Gambi 's help , he rescues the girls from the 100 at the Seahorse Motel . However , he is unable to find Will 's boss Lala . After being brought to the head of the 100 , Tobias Whale , by his two underlings Syonide and Joey Toledo , Lala is instructed to kill Black Lightning . Anissa 's trauma activates her own powers , causing her to break a sink in half . `` LaWanda : The Book of Hope '' Oz Scott Salim Akil January 23 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 23 ) T43. 10002 1.94 Jefferson assures Lynn that he is giving up his Black Lightning identity for good . However , he learns that the 100 are still running prostitutes at the Seahorse Motel and that his daughters are being targeted as witnesses . Jefferson asks Gambi to help him find Lala by hacking the police 's database . Anissa 's girlfriend offers to get her a therapist . Will escapes police custody , but is captured and executed by Lala . LaWanda , a former student of Jefferson 's , tries to free her daughter from the grip of the 100 and he promises to help her . LaWanda is killed when she confronts Lala at the Seahorse Motel . Blaming himself for her death , Jefferson throws aside his concerns and prepares to go after the 100 . Lynn visits Gambi and asks him to convince her husband otherwise , but he refuses . Using information from Will 's recovered phone , Jefferson suits up and storms the hotel where Lala is hiding , beating him severely just before the police arrive to arrest him . While out shopping , Anissa subdues a robber with her powers . Using his connections with Deputy Chief Zeke Cayman after the Seahorse Motel was shut down , Tobias gets access to Lala 's cell and strangles him with only one hand . `` LaWanda : The Book of Burial '' Mark Tonderai Jan Nash January 30 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 30 ) T43. 10003 2.21 Following LaWanda 's death , Reverend Holt plans to orchestrate a peace march in light of the 100 's crime waves , much to the dismay of Jefferson and Inspector Henderson . Anissa meets Grace Choi and experiments with her new abilities . Tobias has an talk with Lady Eve and instructs his minions to massacre the peace march in exchange for Lala 's place in the ranks . Though Black Lightning succeeds in stopping the assailant , Tobias is nearby as Syonide shoots Reverend Holt . The bullet goes through Reverend Holt and hits Khalil , Jennifer 's boyfriend . At the hospital , Jefferson sees the mixed news about the opinions of Black Lightning from the peace marchers and Inspector Henderson . At the tailor shop , Gambi deletes evidence that Tobias was the one responsible for the reverend and Khalil being shot . Back at the hospital , Lynn assures Anissa that she will be there for her . Jefferson and Jennifer tell them that Reverend Holt is doing well but Khalil wo n't walk again . As Jefferson embraces his family , he continues to see the news about Black Lightning as other peace marchers praise his heroic actions . `` Black Jesus '' Michael Schultz Pat Charles February 6 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 06 ) T43. 10004 1.88 One of Jefferson 's students , Bernard , almost overdoses on a new strength - enhancing street drug , Green Light . Jefferson is forced to use his powers to knock him out . The school board wants Bernard expelled but lets him stay when Jefferson cedes final authority over student matters to the board . Gambi and Jefferson track Green Light to a mid-level dealer named Two Bits , an old friend of Jefferson 's . When he dismisses Jefferson , Black Lightning gets him to reveal the location of a warehouse . Anissa and Grace are confronted outside a bar and Anissa uses her strength on the two thugs . Gambi erases the security footage , but keeps a photo of Anissa 's footprint . Black Lightning saves Bernard from a drug den and Jefferson puts him in rehab . Jennifer quits track to focus on supporting Khalil . Lady Eve gets impatient with Tobias , who entered the criminal world after being forced out of city council for supposedly killing Black Lightning . Tobias has Joey Toledo murder the morgue doctor who told him Black Lighting was dead . Tobias ' sister Tori arrives and proposes turning the people against Black Lightning . Tobias visits Khalil where he pays his medical bills and tells him it 's Black Lightning 's fault that he 'll never walk again . 5 `` And Then the Devil Brought the Plague : The Book of Green Light '' Rose Troche Adam Giaudrone February 13 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 13 ) T43. 10005 1.81 Gambi alters Black Lightning 's suit for flight . Jefferson experiences severe headaches . Tobias pays Gambi a visit , looking for the identity of Black Lightning but Gambi says he does n't know ; and that Tobias is breaking their deal by coming to him . Tracking Green Light , Black Lightning finds out it is coming from Joey Toledo . Jennifer defends herself against two girls at a skating rink . One girl 's family is furious . While Jefferson and Lynn take responsibility upon being confronted by the family , they are impressed . Tori says Tobias needs to finally deal with their abusive father , Eldridge . Now an old man , Tobias breaks his father 's back and convinces Tori to let him die . Anissa discovers that , decades ago , her grandfather , reporter Alvin Pierce , had a story on the disappearance of nine enhanced teenagers . The newspaper would n't print the story and Alvin was murdered a week later . Anissa visits the paper 's editor who says `` they '' are still watching . Nevertheless , he gives her some files and Anissa suits up to explore a storage unit after putting together a costume from different clothes she purchases . On a tip from Inspector Henderson , Black Lightning confronts Toledo , but his headaches incapacitate him . This allows Toledo to escape as he vows to Black Lightning that Tobias Whale will kill him . 6 `` Three Sevens : The Book of Thunder '' Benny Boom Charles Holland February 27 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 27 ) T43. 10006 1.64 After Joey Toledo contacts Deputy Chief Cayman about Black Lightning 's sighting , Peter picks up Black Lightning before the police can find him and informs Lynn . The next day , Jefferson deals with Anissa getting in trouble with the police in relation to vandalism of a Confederate general 's statue , as well as Fowdy showing cyber-bullying videos about Jennifer . Meanwhile , Lynn compares the brain scans of those on Green Light and Black Lightning . While Black Lightning prepares for a confrontation with Tobias , Anissa uses her powers to destroy the Confederate general 's statue after she learns that someone was killed over it . Afterwards , Anissa contacts Lynn to reveal her powers . Due to an attack at the hospital , Black Lightning cancels his planned attack on Tobias . Anissa shows up and fights off the thieves ; Black Lightning battles and injures her , thinking that she was a metahuman who attacked Lynn . After realizing who she is , Lynn and Jefferson call Peter for help . Peter visits Lady Eve , having trained her , and makes a deal to keep the Pierce family off - limits to The 100 , who want to stop Lynn 's research . Meanwhile , Khalil takes up Tobias 's offer to walk again . Anissa awakes and finally discovers that her father is Black Lightning . 7 `` Equinox : The Book of Fate '' Bille Woodruff Lamont Magee March 6 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 06 ) T43. 10007 1.46 Since the discovery of Anissa having developed metahuman powers , Lynn examines Anissa while Peter Gambi comes clean to Jefferson about not telling him that Tobias Whale is back in town . Investigating the break - in at the hospital , Inspector Henderson gets the description of the criminals responsible and thinks the 100 is behind this though the two thieves are killed . After visiting Lady Eve about Tobias Whale , a disguised Gambi enters Tobias 's club and kills Toledo to make Tobias fall in line . Lynn asks Gambi to make a suit for Anissa . At a club that Tobias is attending , Black Lightning fights him and his henchmen which results in Tobias getting wounded and Tori accidentally getting killed by a stray bullet . During this time , Tobias Whale 's henchmen use special electrical guns to kill Lady Eve and her minions . After a talk with Anissa , Black Lightning gets a call from Henderson believing he killed Lady Eve . In the final scene , Lala is in a hotel room as he is brought back to life with Lawanda 's head tattooed on his chest . 8 `` The Book of Revelations '' Tanya Hamilton Jan Nash March 13 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 13 ) T43. 10008 1.45 Two henchmen are surprised to see Lala back from the dead ; while Lawanda talks to him encouraging violence and seducing him . Peter Gambi meets with A.S.A. member Martin Proctor who wants Black Lightning dead as a threat to the Freeland experiment . Examining Lady Eve 's body , Jefferson and Anissa trace the weapon 's radiation ; finding it and the body of Lady Eve 's killer . Meanwhile , Jennifer is startled at school , causing her to unlock her own electrical powers . After calling Henderson , Jefferson and Anissa hide nearby when they see someone coming close . While Jefferson sneaks up on the person , Anissa sees that it is about to explode and activates her powers to shield her father . Jefferson suspects The 100 intercepted his call to Henderson . Lynn finds that Greenlight was similar to a vaccine that was found in Alvin Pierce 's locker from 30 years ago . Gambi admits that his real name is Peter Esposito and that he withheld some things to protect Jefferson and his family from the A.S.A. who made the vaccine and hunt metahumans . Jefferson warns Peter to stay away from his family . In the final scene , Jennifer confides in Anissa about her electrical powers . 9 `` The Book of Little Black Lies '' Tawnia McKernan Keli Goff March 20 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 20 ) T43. 10009 1.55 Anissa reveals her own powers and the fact their father is Black Lightning to Jennifer ; and she feels lied to by her parents all her life . Three separate investigations of Inspector Henderson into the corrupt police officers , Peter into the electrical weapons , and Jefferson and Anissa into Green Light from Alvin 's research all lead to the same lab where the drug is currently being manufactured . Peter gives Anissa her costume as Thunder and says he made a mistake in keeping secrets , but he was just trying to protect the ones he loves . With help from her mother , Jennifer is able to see why her parents lied but does n't want to save the world , mourning her loss of her chance at a normal life . Black Lightning and Thunder attack the Green Light lab together and Inspector Henderson is able to make a few arrests before they blow it up . A.S.A. agents attack with weapons to disable Black Lightning 's powers , but Thunder saves him . At home , Jennifer is able to forgive her father who promises to be honest with her from now on as they watch The Princess and the Frog . 10 `` Sins of the Father : The Book of Redemption '' Eric Laneuville Pat Charles March 27 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 27 ) T43. 10010 1.55 This episode 's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed . Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise . ( May 2018 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Thunder investigates Peter 's tip about the kids from 30 years ago and finds they are still alive . When she brings Black Lightning to the lab , it 's empty and they fight off ASA agents again . Two Bits sees one of Jefferson 's students display powers and get kidnapped , telling Jefferson . Meanwhile , Lala begins seeing Will , now also tattooed on his chest , as a ghost while taking over The 100 to sell traditional drugs againand planning revenge on Tobias Whale . He even displayed increased strength on anyone who disagrees with the plan . Anissa and Jennifer argue about powers again causing Jennifer 's whole body to flare up with electricity . Lynn finds that while their father is like a battery manipulating electricity , Jennifer can generate it . Martin Proctor and the A.S.A. kidnap and torture Peter , demanding Black Lightning 's identity . Under orders of Martin , two A.S.A. agents take Jefferson away while he mentors a child to get Peter to talk . Jefferson uses his powers , allowing Peter to kill two A.S.A. agents . Peter begins healing in his basement base and the Pierce family hides in Alvin 's old house . Peter tells Jefferson to find the new A.S.A. spotter in the community that finds kids with powers . At the new location of the stasis pods holding the kids , Martin has realized that Jefferson is Black Lightning after putting two and two together and informs Vice-Principal Fowdy about it as she is revealed to be the A.S.A. 's new spotter . 11 `` Black Jesus : The Book of Crucifixion '' Michael Schultz Melora Rivera April 3 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 03 ) T43. 10011 1.50 Black Lightning and Thunder raid another location and find that the bodies have been moved again . Vice-Principal Kara Fowdy tells a scientist to keep an eye on the stasis pods stable , but one teenager from 30 years ago dies . From the shadows , Fowdy instructs Deputy Chief Cayman to have Jefferson framed for possession of Greenlight . In an online discussion with her bosses , Fowdy is told that the federal agents will take Jefferson to the black site to determine if he is Black Lightning . While Lynn tries to find a lawyer that can defend Jefferson , Henderson visits Jefferson 's cell , as he acts out an interrogation with Jefferson by talking about why his daughters were kidnapped by Lala . Thanks to Peter , Thunder runs after his remote - controlled car using a hologram of Black Lightning ; to fool everyone into believing Jefferson can not be Black Lightning . Henderson is able to catch Detective Grunion and convinces him to snitch on the rest . Henderson has Jefferson released and Cayman is arrested for his corruption . Jefferson has been exonerated and Henderson has been sworn in as the new Deputy Chief of Police . Peter joins the Pierce family for dinner to celebrate Jefferson 's exoneration . 12 `` The Resurrection and the Light : The Book of Pain '' Oz Scott Jan Nash & Adam Giaudrone April 10 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 10 ) T13. 10012 1.54 This episode 's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed . Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise . ( May 2018 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Khalil resurfaces where he now has a spinal implant that makes him walk again . Peter Gambi confronts a weapon maker for information about Martin Proctor . While the weapon maker finds the information , he is confronted by Lala , who acted strange after hearing the phrase `` The devil deals the cards . '' Meanwhile , Lynn works to help Jennifer with her condition . Under orders of Tobias Whale , Khalil as Painkiller , attacks Jefferson High using paralysis needles based from a toxin his implant now creates ; to draw out Black Lightning so that they can find out who he is . When Black Lightning confronts Khalil , Tobias joins the fight . As Jennifer works to get control of her abilities , Thunder faces off against Syonide where she manages to get a cut in Syonide 's left arm under her internal body armor . As Tobias restrains Black Lightning , Khalil does a strike that accidentally stops Black Lightning 's heart . Tobias reprimands Khalil for that action . When Thunder appears , Syonide covers their escape as Jennifer builds up enough energy to resuscitate Black Lightning . Falling back to a cabin in the woods at North Freeland , Peter cloaks them from tracking . Following the incident at the school , Martin Proctor tells Kara Fowdy to find Black Lightning even if she has to burn Freeland to do it . Meanwhile , Lala is brought to Tobias Whale by Syonide , who is unsurprised to see Lala alive . Using the phrase , Tobias is able to control Lala and plans on taking out Martin Proctor next . 13 `` Shadow of Death : The Book of War '' Salim Akil Charles D. Holland April 17 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 17 ) T43. 10013 1.68 Near death in North Freeland , Jefferson speaks with his late father Alvin , who motivates him to wake up , though his powers are gone . With the metahuman occupants are dying , Martin Proctor demands Lala be brought to him for information on Tobias . Tobias had Lala revived and placed under his control and sends him with a bomb inside his stomach to the A.S.A. which kills a few agents . As Proctor sends agents to the cabin , Inspector Henderson gets word and the police pursue . Jennifer uses her powers to restore her father 's , increasing her family 's and Peter 's chances of survival against the A.S.A. agents and avoid the police . Tobias 's group attack the A.S.A. headquarters and only Martin is able to escape . The Pierce family confronts Martin and Peter realizes he is running a rogue operation ; Gambi then kills Procter . When the scientist states that he needs the briefcase to deal with the pods ' inhabitants , Lynn states that she knows someone who can help them . The details of the A.S.A 's experiments are exposed to the media , causing a government scandal . The public recognizes Black Lightning and Thunder as public heroes for having stopped the rogue government conspiracy . Tobias opens Martin 's briefcase using his severed thumbs ; this provides Tobias the means he needs to eliminate Black Lightning .