In the early 1990s , Tracy and Larry tried to get rid of her sister - in - law , Lucy Coe , whom Tracy disapproved of even more than Monica . It was later revealed by Larry that Lucy was pregnant with the child of Scotty Baldwin , not Alan , and rather than repeat what had happened years ago with Monica , Alan divorced Lucy , although she would remain friends with him and even establish a pleasant acquaintance with both Tracy and Monica , whom Tracy now approved of , and encouraged Alan to re-marry . Tracy kicked Larry Ashton out after realizing that he was no good , and he left town permanently . Later on , Tracy became entranced with Paul Hornsby , a young man who was infatuated with Jenny Eckert , a distant cousin of Luke Spencer . Paul , involved with shady characters determined to get their hands on ELQ was forced into marrying Tracy , and Jenny began to date Ned . Tracy found Jenny to be a threat to her happiness with Paul , so she encouraged Ned and Jenny even though she could n't stand her . She decided to dig up some information on her to keep her away from Paul , and discovered that Jenny , who had claimed to be a virgin , had an abortion when she was only a teenager . However , Paul found out what had been going on and decided to leave Tracy with their newborn son , Dillon Hornsby to marry Jenny whose marriage to Ned was unsuccessful . In a moment of rage , Tracy ran over Jenny with her car , and fled the scene of the accident . Later , Jenny remembered seeing Tracy behind the wheel and blackmailed her into getting a divorce from Paul and sharing custody of Dillon with Paul . Tracy fulfilled most of the terms , but in the end , Edward disowned her once again , and even compassionate words from Lila could n't change his mind . Distraught over being banished yet again , Tracy was grateful when Monica provided her with emotional support as she prepared to leave town . Tracy was supposed to give Paul joint custody of Dillon , but because she did not like Jenny and what she did to Ned , she took Dillon with her to Europe .