During the events of The Fast and the Furious , Brian is undercover for an LAPD - FBI task force under the alias Brian Spilner . As part of his investigation into a string of hijackings that have resulted in millions of dollars in electronic merchandise being stolen , Brian is charged with infiltrating the Los Angeles street racing scene , as the evidence suggests the culprits are talented racers . His initial contact with Dom and his team goes poorly as Dom 's best friend Vince antagonizes Brian into a fight , which leads to Dom banishing him from the store and garnering Brian the nickname `` the buster '' from the team . However , Brian re-engages them later that night when he lays the pink slip for his Mitsubishi Eclipse down as a wager in a high - stakes race near downtown LA . Dom accepts , but is unable to collect when an LAPD raid leads to the frantic dispersal of all the racers . Dom abandons his car in a parking garage , and is rescued by Brian from being captured by an LAPD patrol officer . Fleeing the police , the duo accidentally enter into the territory of Dom 's rival , Johnny Tran , resulting in the destruction of Brian 's Eclipse . Due to the earlier terms of the race , Dom holds Brian to his debt , but lets him into his inner - circle . Brian presents a totaled Toyota Supra as payment , proposing that if they restore it that it will meet Dom 's demands . As they restore the car Brian becomes closer to both Dom and his sister Mia , whom he begins to date . Both his friendship to Dom and romance with Mia upset Dom 's best friend Vince . Under pressure from his superiors with the LAPD and FBI , Brian presses Dom harder to understand where he gets the money to pay for such high - end upgrades to their vehicles . Dom implies that if Brian proves himself at a big upcoming racing event called Race Wars , then he 'll reveal his secret . During the event , Dom and his crew depart in the middle of the night to hijack a semi truck . Brian reveals his identity to Mia and coerces information out of her to help Dom . The two of them subsequently pursue the crew near Thermal , and find them in the middle of a hijacking gone wrong . Vince , stuck on the truck and wounded by the armed truck driver , is rescued by Brian after Letty is incapacitated . Brian is then forced to reveal his identity to Dom as he calls for an emergency medevac to airlift Vince to safety . Infuriated , Dom leaves with Mia , Leon and Letty . Brian pursues them to the Toretto household , but Leon and Letty have already fled to avoid arrest . At that same time , Johnny Tran and his cousin Lance perform a drive - by shooting over an earlier dispute , prompting Brian and Dom to pursue them in separate cars . Dom disables Lance in his Dodge Charger while Brian kills Tran by shooting him in the side , causing him to fall off of his dirt bike at high speed . Dom then challenges Brian to a quarter - mile drag race on a stretch of road that has a railroad crossing as the finish line . The two finish in a tie , narrowly beating an oncoming train , but Dom immediately collides with a semi truck advancing from a side street , causing his vehicle to flip multiple times . Running to Dom 's aid , Brian understands Dom 's dilemma , and not wanting to send him back to prison , hands over the keys to his Supra so that Dom can escape capture by the police .