In Season 3A , Chris and Allison have retired from hunting to stay out of supernatural affairs . In `` Fireflies '' , Scott goes to him for help in stopping Cora and Boyd when they are under the influence of the full moon . Chris initially refuses saying Scott 's world `` decimated his '' . After seeing a supposed victim of their rampage however , he relents assisting Scott , Derek , and Isaac , in finding and capturing them . Despite saying that he has retired , Chris starts getting involved with the Alpha Pack situation in `` Motel California '' and is revealed to have been hunting the Darach for some time and knows also about Allison 's continued involvement . Chris has also grown more supportive and compromising towards Allison 's relationships with her supernatural friends . When Jennifer names him as the final sacrifice , Chris hands himself over to keep his daughter safe and is kidnapped by her . He is held in the Nemeton along with Scott 's mother and Stiles 's father , all three being Guardians of their children for the final sacrifice . Chris and the other parents are eventually rescued by his daughter , Isaac and Stiles . He decides to re-work the Code with Allison in the mid-Season 3 finale and `` protect those who can not protect themselves '' , since the Nemeton had been revitalized . During Season 3B , when the Oni appear in Beacon Hills , Chris relays a tale to the group in `` Silverfinger '' . 24 years earlier , at the age of 18 , Gerard had Chris conduct his first gun deal leaving out the fact that the customers were Yakuza . During the meeting , three Oni appeared and went after the Yakuza boss , the kumichō , who was supernatural , possessed by a Nogitsune . Chris had survived and saved the life of a man called `` Silverfinger '' by shooting one of the Oni directly in the face , shattering its mask . Chris and Derek also come to solve their differences in `` Letharia Vulpina '' , when Derek saves his life , shielding Chris from the blast of a bomb , and after Derek is freed from the Nogitsune possession in `` De-Void '' , Chris tells Derek he 's not his enemy anymore . In the penultimate episode of Season 3 , when he shows Allison how to cast a silver arrowhead to graduate as a hunter , Allison takes the time to tell Chris she loves him and she 's proud of what they 've accomplished . Chris later arrives at the Oak Creek camp and sees that Allison has been killed . In `` The Divine Move '' , Chris feels devastation , but knows how to deal with it saying he has the capacity and a skill to compartmentalize his emotions . He actually comforts Isaac over the latter 's sorrow . Isaac figures out that Allison wanted Scott to tell him that she had destroyed the Oni with her silver arrowhead . He has Chris recall his first deal where he 'd shot off an Oni 's mask ; Chris had fired a silver bullet , but the bullet must have gone through and through : silver is a poison to the Oni . They come to the school and destroy the remaining Oni with the arrowheads avenging Allison . Chris leaves Beacon Hills for France with Isaac in tow to permanently put away the Nogitsune trapped in the triskele urn and to help each other come to terms with the death of his daughter .