Joffrey Baratheon ( season 1 -- 4 ) portrayed by Jack Gleeson . Joffrey Baratheon of House Baratheon is the Crown Prince of the Seven Kingdoms . He is the eldest of Cersei Lannister 's children and heir to the Iron Throne . Vicious and cruel , he has a short temper and believes he can do anything he wants . He is also a coward when confronted by those who are n't afraid of him . Joffrey is also unaware that King Robert is not his real father -- who , in reality , is Jaime Lannister . After Robert 's death , the Lannisters make Joffrey the King against his father 's will , and Joffrey becomes a cruel ruler and a Puppet King used by his mother . Joffrey makes a mistake when , against Cersei 's and Sansa 's wishes , he refuses to honor his promise of sparing Ned ; instead , Joffrey has him executed . His act worsens the situation with the Lannisters ' war effort as Jaime is captured by the Starks and his uncles Renly and Stannis have challenged his claim to the Iron Throne . He frequently orders his Kingsguard to beat Sansa . His cruelty and ignorance of the commoners ' suffering makes him unpopular after he orders the City Watch to kill all of his father 's bastard children in King 's Landing which would later lead to a riot where he is almost killed . When Stannis attacks King 's Landing , Joffrey serves only as a figurehead and avoids the heavy fighting . When the battle eventually turns in Stannis ' favor , Cersei calls her son into the safety of the castle , damaging the morale of his army . The battle is only won by his grandfather Tywin and the forces of House Tyrell . To cement the alliance between their families , Joffrey 's engagement to Sansa is annulled so he can marry Margaery Tyrell . Upon the end of Season 3 , the marriage is yet to take place , and rifts are growing between Joffrey and his uncle and grandfather , who are ( in their respective ways ) rebutting his cruelty . He also seems to take little interest in his bride , but is amazed and altered by her ways of winning the people 's favor , in which he takes part . In Season 4 , Joffrey finally marries Margaery , but he dies at the wedding after being poisoned , and his uncle Tyrion is accused and arrested . It is confirmed , however , he was poisoned by Olenna Tyrell , with assistance from Petyr Baelish and Dontos Hollard , as she wanted to protect Margaery from the physical and emotional abuse that Joffrey had very clearly inflicted on Sansa . Olenna later confides to Margaery that she would never have let her marry `` that beast '' . Following Joffrey 's funeral , his younger brother and heir , Tommen , is crowned King .