No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) 14 `` Chapter Fourteen : A Kiss Before Dying '' Rob Seidenglanz Roberto Aguirre - Sacasa October 11 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 11 ) T13. 20801 2.34 After being shot , Fred is rushed to the hospital by Archie , who is soon joined by his friends . Sheriff Keller gains a description of the shooter from Archie and calls him in for a lineup , but none of the men in the lineup are the shooter . When Veronica searches Fred 's belongings , Archie sees that his wallet is missing . Betty and Jughead visit Pop 's to look for the wallet but find nothing ; instead , they learn from Pop that the shooter did not take any money from the register , meaning that it was actually a hit against Fred . Jughead asks the Southside Serpents to investigate the shooting , but to no avail . Veronica accuses Hermione of hiring a hitman to kill Fred , but she vehemently denies this and tensions develop between them when Veronica is not sure of her mother is telling the truth . Meanwhile , Cheryl intimidates Penelope -- who suffers severe burns due to the fire at their mansion and is hospitalized -- into lying that it was an accident . Fred survives his shooting . Hiram returns to Riverdale , further escalating the tensions in the Lodge family . In the nearby town of Greendale , Ms. Grundy is strangled to death by Fred 's shooter . 15 `` Chapter Fifteen : Nighthawks '' Allison Anders Michael Grassi October 18 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 18 ) T13. 20802 1.76 After learning of Ms. Grundy 's murder , an increasingly anxious Archie suspects that her death is connected with Fred 's shooting , which pushes him to get a gun from Dilton Doiley . Following the shooting , business at Pop 's Chock'lit Shoppe has declined , leading Pop to consider selling the diner , but Betty convinces Pop to let her throw a retro fun night to drum up business . Jughead learns that F.P. is facing 20 years in prison and seeks help from Penny Peabody , a Serpent lawyer , who advises Jughead to ask the Blossoms to testify on F.P. 's behalf . Cheryl initially refuses , but relents when Betty extorts her with the video of Jason 's murder . With Cheryl 's testimony , the judge decides to revisit F.P 's sentence . Hiram quietly buys the diner from Pop , but tells Veronica he made a `` charitable donation '' . In the woods , Moose Mason and Midge Klump take some jingle jangle ( a new drug to Riverdale ) , and as they do so , they are shot by Fred 's shooter . 16 `` Chapter Sixteen : The Watcher in the Woods '' Kevin Sullivan Ross Maxwell October 25 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 25 ) T13. 20803 1.62 Kevin , who was in the forest , hears the gunshots and rushes to find Midge crying . Moose , who shielded Midge from the gunfire , is hospitalized and survives . Following the incident , Archie founds a vigilante group called the Red Circle , to protect Riverdale High students . The Coopers receive a letter from `` the Black Hood '' , taking responsibility for the shootings and the murder of Ms. Grundy , and detailing his intentions to target sinners . Polly leaves town , fearing for her babies . Meanwhile , Jughead begins his tenure at Southside High , befriends Toni Topaz , a Serpent , and refounds the school newspaper , the Red and Black , under the advisory of English teacher Robert Philips . Kevin keeps going out late at night , which concerns Betty . Betty follows him on one of his runs , which leads to him lashing out at her . Hiram tells Archie that he should utilize the Black Hood 's main weapons for the Red Circle . Inspired by this , the Red Circle makes a video calling out the Black Hood . 17 `` Chapter Seventeen : The Town That Dreaded Sundown '' Allison Anders Amanda Lasher November 1 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 01 ) T13. 20804 1.51 Archie 's viral video results in negative repercussions , as Principal Waldo Weatherbee demands he disband the Red Circle . Though Archie refuses , the Red Circle disbands regardless due to the football team being suspended but later reassembles when Archie runs afoul of the Serpents and assists him in a rumble , in which Dilton is injured . Veronica finds out that Archie intends to murder the Black Hood and convinces him to discard his gun . Betty receives a letter from the Black Hood , revealing that her speech from the jubilee ball inspired his actions and gives her a cipher that only she could solve . Mayor Sierra McCoy ( Josie 's mother ) hosts a town meeting to discuss action against the Black Hood , in which Alice blames the Serpents , but Fred argues against letting fear rule them . Betty and Jughead figure out that the Black Hood intends to attack town hall and have the meeting evacuated , before showing the letter to her parents , Sheriff Keller and Mayor McCoy . Later , Betty receives a call from the Black Hood . 18 5 `` Chapter Eighteen : When a Stranger Calls '' Ellen Pressman Aaron Allen November 8 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 08 ) T13. 20805 1.47 The Black Hood reveals to Betty that he knows where Polly is and threatens to kill her unless she publishes a mugshot of Alice , which she does . Hiram invites the St. Clair 's , friends of the Lodges from New York . On the Southside , Jughead attempts to stop Sweet Pea and the Serpents from blowing up the Riverdale Register office and joins the gang to prevent this from happening . The Black Hood forces Betty to cut ties with Veronica and Jughead and later gives her a hood . At the Lodge 's open house event , Nick St. Clair drugs Cheryl and takes her back to his hotel room to rape her , but is stopped and beaten by Veronica and the Pussycats . Jughead and Toni sit in his trailer , where he tells her his relationship with Betty is over ; they kiss . Back at Betty 's house , the Black Hood tells her she has broken the rules and he will now kill Polly unless she gives him the name of a `` sinner '' to kill , to which Betty names Nick St. Clair . 19 6 `` Chapter Nineteen : Death Proof '' Maggie Kiley Tessa Leigh Williams & Arabella Anderson November 15 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 15 ) T13. 20806 1.43 The Black Hood challenges Betty to find the identity of The Sugarman , who has been supplying the jingle jangle to Riverdale . Cheryl wants to press charges against Nick , whom the Black Hood did not attack , but Penelope agrees not to in exchange for money from the St. Clair 's . Archie goes to Southside High , where he saves Jughead from a raid organized by McCoy and Sheriff Keller . Tall Boy , F.P. 's right hand man , reaches an agreement with the Ghoulies , the dealers of jingle jangle . Jughead and Archie visit F.P. , who tells Jughead to challenge the Ghoulies to a race . During the race , Archie pulls the brake on Jughead 's car , and reveals he called Sheriff Keller , who arrests the Ghoulies leader . Veronica convinces Hiram and Hermione to stop investing with the St. Clair 's , while Cheryl does the same with Penelope . Later , the Lodges receive a call that the St. Clair 's have been run off the road , but will recover in months . Penelope reveals to Cheryl that the Sugarman is Robert Philips ; Cheryl later tells Betty , who exposes him in the Blue and Gold . Philips is subsequently arrested and shot by the Black Hood in jail . 20 7 `` Chapter Twenty : Tales from the Darkside '' Dawn Wilkinson James DeWille November 29 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 29 ) T13. 20807 1.45 After killing Phillips , the Black Hood leaves a letter at Pop 's challenging Riverdale to go 48 hours without sinning , or he will kill again . Jughead is enlisted by Penny Peabody to deliver a crate of drugs to repay her for her earlier help , which he does with Archie . She says this is a one - time thing , but Jughead later finds she was lying . Josie begins to receive weird messages from a secret admirer , implied to be Cheryl , including a box with a pig 's heart . Mayor McCoy reprimands her for coming home late , revealing she has received death threats . Betty , realizing that Phillips was killed in the sheriff 's office , believes Sheriff Keller might be the Black Hood . She investigates , but Keller is able to provide proof that he is not the Black Hood . However , Betty and Veronica discover that he is having an affair with Mayor McCoy . Archie , Jughead , Betty , Veronica , Josie , and Cheryl all gather at Pop 's . After Jughead leaves to visit F.P. , the Black Hood calls Pop to inform him Riverdale failed his challenge , and Pop grimly announces that `` The reckoning is upon us '' . 21 8 `` Chapter Twenty - One : House of the Devil '' Kevin Sullivan Yolonda Lawrence December 6 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 06 ) T13. 20808 1.48 F.P. is released from jail and begins working at Pop 's , intending to quit the Serpents . Jughead and Betty decide to throw F.P. a `` retirement '' party at the Whyte Worm , so they enlist Archie and Veronica to do the detective work . While Jughead reconnects with his dad , Betty goes to the Whyte Worm to organize the party . There , she meets Toni and tells her she wants to keep watch over Jughead . Archie and Veronica follow a lead on a past serial killer called the Riverdale Reaper , who murdered a family of four before being killed himself by a lynch mob . Their investigation leads them to discover there was a fifth member of the family , which they discover to be the school 's janitor , Joseph Svenson . Archie and Veronica confront Svenson , but decide he is n't the Black Hood . At the party , F.P. , who is upset that Jughead helped Peabody , decides to stay with the Serpents . Outside , Veronica breaks up with Archie following a discussion about love . Jughead , not wanting to bring Betty into the Serpents ' business , also ends their relationship . 22 9 `` Chapter Twenty - Two : Silent Night , Deadly Night '' Rob Seidenglanz Shepard Boucher December 13 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 13 ) T13. 20809 1.43 Fred receives a hospital bill of $86,000 . Failing to convince her parents to help Fred , Veronica sneaks into Hiram 's study and finds out that he bought Pop 's . She later convinces him and Hermione to stop hiding secrets from her and help Fred . Jughead rallies the younger Serpents , who kidnap Peabody and cut off her Serpent tattoo . Betty and Archie receive a box from the Black Hood , containing Svenson 's finger . They then receive a call from the Black Hood , who challenges them to find Svenson . They are able to find Svenson 's location , but instead find an empty coffin . The Black Hood then arrives and tries to force Betty into burying Archie alive , but flees when the police arrive . After a chase , Keller shoots and kills the Black Hood before he can escape . The Black Hood is then revealed to be Svenson himself . Later , with the Black Hood dead , Veronica and Archie get back together , while Betty throws away all of her findings surrounding Svenson , but she keeps the hood he gave her earlier . 23 10 `` Chapter Twenty - Three : The Blackboard Jungle '' Tim Hunter Britta Lundin & Brian E. Paterson January 17 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 17 ) T13. 20810 1.44 The Lodges strike a deal with Mayor McCoy for land which involves shutting down Southside High , causing Jughead , Toni , Sweet Pea and the other Serpents to transfer to Riverdale High , putting them at odds with other students . Archie is approached by FBI Agent Adams , who wants his help on finding proof of Hiram 's criminal dealings . Archie agrees to help in exchange for immunity for Veronica and Fred . Archie investigates Nick , who implies that Hiram was behind his car crash , which broke both of his legs . Despite Hal 's objections , Betty and Alice track down Alice 's son she gave up for adoption , Chic . Chic initially refuses to come with them , but Betty returns to his residence and saves him from an assault , bringing him to the Cooper household . Jughead , following advice from FP , gets his fellow Serpents to lay low . Archie reveals to Adams that he secretly doubts Svenson was really the Black Hood . That night , Chic lurks in Betty 's room while she sleeps . 24 11 `` Chapter Twenty - Four : The Wrestler '' Gregg Araki Greg Murray & Devon Turner January 24 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 24 ) T13. 20811 TBD Pickens ' Day , a day in remembrance of Riverdale 's founder , nears . Adams tells Archie to get close to Hiram . With Veronica 's urging , he tries out for the wrestling team in order to impress Hiram , a former wrestler . This , however , causes tension between the two to rise . Betty learns that Chic is a webcam model , and attempts to reach out to him , talking about her ' dark side ' . Mayor McCoy organizes the Pickens ' Day festival , which the Lodges attempt to spin as a festival with North / Southside unity , with the Serpents as security . Jughead interviews Toni 's grandfather for a school project , learning that Toni 's grandfather was a member of a Native American tribe which was slaughtered by Pickens . Jughead publishes this story as an article , escalting tensions with the two sides . Tensions arise between Veronica and Josie , with McCoy driving a wedge between the two . At the Pickens Day fest , the Serpents protest the event , but Hiram spins their words positively . That night , Archie meets with Hiram , who offers Archie his business tutelage , which Archie accepts . The next morning , McCoy , Sheriff Keller , and the Lodges meet at the statue of Pickens , which has been decapitated . They decide to blame the desecration on the Serpents . 25 12 `` Chapter Twenty - Five : The Wicked and the Divine '' Rachel Talalay Roberto Aguirre - Sacasa January 31 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 31 ) T13. 20812 TBD 26 13 `` Chapter Twenty - Six : The Tell - Tale Heart '' Julie Plec Michael Grassi February 7 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 07 ) TBA TBD 27 14 `` Chapter Twenty - Seven : The Hills Have Eyes '' David Katzenberg Ross Maxwell TBA TBA TBD 28 15 `` Chapter Twenty - Eight : There Will Be Blood '' Mark Piznarski Aaron Allen TBA TBA TBD 29 16 `` Chapter Twenty - Nine : Primary Colors '' Sherwin Shilati James DeWille TBA TBA TBD 30 17 `` Chapter Thirty : The Noose Tightens '' Alexis Ostrander Britta Lundin & Brian E. Paterson TBA TBA TBD 31 18 `` Chapter Thirty - One : A Night to Remember '' Jason Stone Arabella Anderson & Tessa Leigh Williams April 18 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 18 ) TBA TBD This episode will be a musical event covering songs from Carrie : The Musical .