( show ) Table of versions : iOS 5.0. x iPad family : 1 2 iPhone family : 3GS 4 4S iPod family : 3 4 Limited support on iPad ( 1st generation ) and iPod Touch ( 3rd Generation ) Version Build Baseband Release date Features 5.0 9A334 04.11. 08 05.16. 05 07.11. 01 1.0. 11 3.00. 03 October 12 , 2011 ; 6 years ago ( 2011 - 10 - 12 ) Initial release on iPhone 4S All notifications concentrated to Notification Center : swipe downwards from the status bar to open it . Notification center shows a list of all notifications and widgets ( widgets available only on iPhone & iPod Touch ) . Notification order can be arranged . Choose Notification Type : Banner notifications , the classic pop - up notifications , or no notification at all ( selectable on an app - by - app basis ) . Notification list on lock screen . Swipe an icon to unlock and go to the specific notification . Notifications announcing earthquakes with 2 minutes ( only in Japan ) . Messages Messaging between all iOS devices running iOS 5 through Wi - Fi or 3G . Allows to send text , photos , videos , contacts , and locations . All iMessages and conversations will be synced between all iOS devices linked under a single Apple ID . You can start a conversation on one device and continue it on another . Can message between multiple people simultaneously ( group messaging ) . Shows when other person ( s ) is typing . Delivery receipts . Optional read receipts ( enable in Settings ) . Animated GIF image support for iMessage . Ability to set how many times an alert will be shown when a new message is received ( ranges from once to ten times ) . The name of the person that responds appears in small light blue text directly above the response when SMS is sent to a group . Slight redesign for text messages . Font & time - stamp layout . Hide keyboard ; hidden by downwards scrolling in message screen ( after being used to type a message ) . Unhidden again by tapping in text entry field . Newsstand A new icon on the home screen , which opens to an iBooks - inspired folder which shows all papers and magazines downloaded from the App Store . Subscriptions to newspapers and magazines available for browsing and downloading in a dedicated section of the App Store , stored in the Newsstand folder . Reminders `` To - Do list '' functionality in Reminders app . Date - based reminder notifications . Location - based reminder notifications that can be set to when you leave , or arrive a specified area ( ) . Twitter integration Tweeting from native applications : Photos , Camera , YouTube , Maps , and Safari using new Tweet Sheet which supports multiple accounts . Music iPod app now split and renamed to Music and Videos ( iPhone and iPad only ; was always split on the iPod Touch ) . Video podcasts can only be found in the Videos app . Ability to play content while the device is synchronizing with iTunes . Ability to delete songs from device ( by swiping over the corresponding song ) . Tap and hold on a song to view extended song information ( iPhone & iPod Touch only ) . Long names scrolling in now playing . Album artwork now displays in full resolution ( Retina Display only ) on Now Playing screen . Broadcast song information on devices ( e.g. car stereo ) when connected over Bluetooth . Improved Sound Check for Music . `` Group by Album Artist '' option for Music . iTunes Store button has been added to the Music app . Removed ability to view lyrics ( on iPad ) . Camera Volume - up key as shutter release button to take photos ( also works using headphone remote volume up button ) . Also works for starting / stopping recording of videos . Shortcut to Camera app from lock screen , accessed by double - clicking the home button ( iPhone 3GS & later and iPod Touch 4th generation only ) . Grid composition aide ( 3x3 ) . Spread to zoom - in , pinch to zoom - out . Swipe left to reveal camera roll . Tap and hold to lock / unlock Auto Exposure and Auto Focus . Options button added , HDR toggle and Grid composition aide toggle . New Camera button on Photos app that returns to Camera instead of a `` Done '' button ( was on OS before this ) to close the Camera Roll . Face detection and video stabilisation . Maps Print maps . Alternate routes . Calendar Can now create , rename , and delete calendars right on the device . Tap and hold or double - tap to create a new event . Tap and hold in `` all - day events '' to create a new all - day event . Drag appointments to a new time slot . Drag handles to change start and end times . Creating new Event , now an `` Invitees '' field ; takes to screen for multiple email address entry , emails sent to all invitees once event is saved . Invitee can `` Accept '' / `` Decline '' / `` Maybe '' ; reply sent to iCloud servers then reflected for all invitees to see . Calendar event on device lists those invitees accepting event . All users on iOS 5. x devices get notification when event is nearing . Ability to specify a time zone to events . Ability to add URLs to events . Current time on Calendar if in landscape mode . Navigate in day view by swiping . Event attachments can now be viewed directly in the app . Share calendars through iCloud with friends and family . Edits made by subscribers to that calendar are updated and pushed to other subscribers of that calendar ( can be disabled by the creator of the calendar and locked so others can not make edits ) . Japanese or Buddhist calendars support . Mail Rich text formatting ( bold , italics , and underline ) . Indentation control . Ability to mark multiple mail items as read . Ability to flag emails . Draggable mail address in the recipients field . Alert if the subject line is blank . Search now includes body of messages . Delete mails while in Airplane mode . Exchange ActiveSync Email can now be deleted offline . Can create new email folders . Mail sidebar . S / MIME support . Ability to show 1000 recent messages ; 25 message option removed . Ability to create additional @ me.com email address within the Mail settings . Ability to increase quote level in Mail settings . New and updated tiny icons on Mail for Windows Live Mail , Gmail , Exchange , etc . Hotmail accounts now have new icons and folders . While reading an email you can swipe right to open a list of messages and swipe left to bring back the open email message again . If you have multiple email accounts configured in Mail. app , swipe left or right from one 's mailboxes folder list , it will take you to another account 's mailboxes . Support for three popular Chinese email services : Tencent 's QQ Mail , and Netease 's 163.com & 126.com mail inboxes . Photos Built - in basic photo editing : crop , red - eye , auto - enhance and rotate photos . Ability to create and edit local photo albums folders ( only those that are n't synced with iTunes ) . Ability to sync pictures taken on one iOS device automatically with other iOS 5 devices using Photo Stream . Ability to select all when adding pictures to an album . Slight re-design for video time - line under Photos app . Safari Safari Reader : new `` Reader '' icon appears in address bar if Safari detects a webpage article , removing need to click - through to each page . Scrollable window sheet appears over current webpage showing all article pages together separated by page breaks , removing ads and page clutter . Ability to change font size in reader mode . Reading List : a new area of the bookmarks window has been added , purposed for pages you might want to read later . New pages can be added from a new option in the action menu or when long - pressing on a link . Items from the Reading List can be synced to iCloud to be pushed to all of your other iOS devices . Safari bookmarks can be synced to iCloud . Ability to open pages in background or in new page ( change in Settings ) . Ability to replace a word with a word from a list of similarly spelled words spellings when typing in a text box on a web page . Private Browsing ; interface colours change from blue to black ( change in Settings ) . Ability to remove custom website data . CSS fixed position support . Slight fade out at end of long URLs ( instead of ellipses ) in the address bar . Super fast HTML5 draw support . Kinetic scrolling within text fields in Safari . iCloud iTunes , iBooks ( books & progress ) , App Store , Photo , Contacts , Calendar , Notes , Reminders , Mail , Safari ( Bookmarks & Reading List ) , Settings , app data , iWork , and backup data ; saved in iCloud to automatically or manually download to all linked devices ( iOS & Mac / Windows PCs ) . All iMessages and conversations will be synced between all iOS devices linked under a single Apple ID . You can start a conversation on one device and continue it on another . Backup home screen layout on iCloud . Document sync . Ability to buy more storage . Free upgrade to 256 kbit / s bit rate for iTunes purchased songs if backing up on iCloud . File names in iCloud Storage are case - sensitive . Documents / data can now be selected to sync with iCloud account . Option to disable iCloud Sync via cellular network to save cost , especially if roaming . Game Center Photos for Friends . Ability to make your Profile public or private . Points in Game Center : shows you how many points you have on the home screen of Game Center . Sort and view Friends on the basis of Points . Friend recommendations . Game recommendations . Games can be purchased from within Game Center . New Friend requests screen . Native support for turn based games . Settings Help Center : learn more about every option under settings app to explore more about it . New menu under Location Services , named System Services , where some services can be toggled on or off ( such as setting the time - zone , location - based iAds , Diagnostics , etc . ) . Hearing Aid Mode . Ability to rename your device . Ability to set up an AirPort base station or Time Capsule devices . Ability to organise Notification Center items `` Manually '' or `` By Time '' . Can select which apps can be included in Notification Center . Can select which type of notification will be used for each app : banner notification , classic pop - up style notification , or no notification . Ability to turn off app badges . On the `` Ringtone '' and `` Text Tone '' page , instead of showing `` new '' , they are all in one category now . Custom sounds for New Message , New Voicemail , New Mail , Sent Mail and Reminders alerts . Ability to purchase text , email , and voicemail alert tones . Under `` Mail , Contacts , Calendars '' , on the bottom it shows `` Reminders '' and gives an option to Sync . In the `` Messages '' section , the `` Alerts '' , `` Show Preview '' , and `` Repeat Alert '' options have been removed . The Usage screen is improved and now shows how much of the memory is consumed by each app . Storage usage clean up . Backup to iCloud shortcut added . Software Update menu added . This allows easier and faster updating of devices independently , without a computer with iTunes installed ; the update downloads directly to the iOS device ; needs Wi - Fi or cellular network connection . Photo Stream settings . New purchases Settings ; automatically download new purchases made on other devices ( for music , apps , and books ) . This can also be enabled or disabled for use on cellular when not connected to Wi - Fi . Twitter sign - in OS - wide with support for multiple Twitter accounts . Ability to set left or right for mono audio . Ability to turn on / off sending of iOS diagnostic data to Apple . Keyboard Ability to create keyboard shortcuts to replace custom phrases . By default includes `` omw '' which expands to `` On my way ! '' . Emoji keyboard no longer needs an app to enable it ( regarding non-Japanese devices ) . Define your own words in Offline Dictionary . New keyboard with prominent # ( hash - tag ) and @ ( mention ) buttons for Twitter app similar to the ``. com '' button when entering an address into the Safari address bar . New Chinese - Pinyin keyboard spreading . Quick Chinese input method . List of associated words show on the top of Chinese input keyboard . Function to convert voice to text PC - Free iTunes / USB no longer needed to activate new devices via a computer . New welcome screen when using the device for the first time ( or after resetting a device ) . Ability to start fresh with no need to tether it to iTunes . Option to restore all data on a device from an iCloud backup through a simple iCloud sign in . Ability to wirelessly sync to iTunes over Wi - Fi added ( an initial tethered sync is needed to pair them together and the setting must be enabled in iTunes ) . OTA delta updates : from iOS 5 forward , devices can now self - update the system software right on the device itself through Wi - Fi or 3G ; no iTunes or computer needed . YouTube Ability to play 480p / 720p videos over 3G ( iPhone only ) . Scrolling titles for YouTube videos . Seek bar fine scrubbing visual notification has been added . FaceTime Improved video quality . Ability to set your FaceTime caller - ID to be your email or your phone number . Ability to mirror the FaceTime call on large screen . iTunes / App Store iTunes Tone Store . New Purchased History section . Genius support for finding songs and apps similar to ones users have purchased formerly . Ability to completely disable in - app purchases . iTunes password prompt . Restrictions with password needed for purchases if enabled . Shows `` Install '' instead of the price for formerly purchased apps . Shows `` Installed '' for installed apps . Additional `` iForgot '' button on App Store if a user has forgotten their Apple ID password . Simultaneous app downloads . Custom tones for almost everything under `` Sounds '' with `` Buy more tones '' button . Music app now has a `` Store '' button that goes to the iTunes Store . Contacts Add family relations ( `` related names '' ) to contacts . Add social media info into contacts . VoiceOver VoiceOver item chooser . VoiceOver action support . Arabic language support for VoiceOver . Option to speak text selection . New voices for VoiceOver . Bluetooth AVRCP 1.4 supported ( sends track and artist info to supported devices ) . Minor improvements / bug fixes New rounded UI switch graphic . Ability to use the device while syncing . Spotlight search now includes Reminders and searches through Messages . Built - in system - wide dictionary ; in the typical Cut / Copy / Paste pop - up when selecting text , there is a new option to `` Define '' . Define brings up a view with definition of the selected word . Ability to delete app data . Fixed a bug that caused a song to crash for a second while switching to another application in the multitasking tray . Apps fade to home screen when they crash , rather than flicking off . Option to automatically set the time ( new for Wi - Fi only devices ) . Switching the ringer switch to `` on '' , the indicator now shows the volume level bar ( iPhone & iPad only ) . Screenshots are saved using the device 's orientation ( formerly , all screenshots were saved as if the device was in portrait mode ) . Hindi virtual keyboard based on standard InScript layout. iPhone & iPod Touch only Notification Center Option to display Stock & Weather widgets in Notification Center . Swipe weather left or right to get five - day forecast . Calendar Week view in landscape orientation . Clock Ability to pause Timer . Tbilisi , Georgia added to World Clock . Weather Weather for user 's current location . Hourly updated weather of 5 day forecasts . Stocks Real - time stock updates. iPhone only Siri voice control . Classed as beta software during whole of iOS 5. x . Voice commands are now executable for different users on device . Device can now translate voice into text and vice versa . Available in English ( UK , US , and Australia ) , French , and German . Phone Enable / disable option for voice - dial if the device is set to security with passcode lock . Delete individual calls in `` Recents '' Phone app . Clear button is now Edit button . Make FaceTime calls without a micro-SIM card . `` Unsecured Calls '' warning lets users know if they are talking on unencrypted networks . Shows city name or area / county in addition to number for unknown calls . Time - mid call invitation alerts . Messages Option to have iMessages sent as SMS when iMessage is unavailable ( enable in Settings ) . Placeholder text indicates whether sending `` iMessage '' or `` Text Message '' ( i.e. SMS / MMS message ) in Messages . SMS / MMS bubbles are green in colour , iMessage bubbles are baby blue . General Customised vibrate alert patterns ( can be set per - contact ) . LED flash alerts . Assistive touch gestures ( iPod Touch only ) . New `` Message '' option to use iMessage using an email ID , in Settings ( for iPod Touch and iPad only ) . Keyboard Split keyboard : swipe up or pull apart to split keyboard in half . Undock keyboard option : keyboard can now be moved up and down the screen . Mail Swipe right to reveal Inbox when in portrait orientation . Calendar Swipe left and right to change months . Year view with heat map colours to show busy / free status . Safari Tabbed browsing . Tapping and holding the back or forward buttons in Safari will show recently visited website history . Tapping and holding the new tab button will show a list of recently closed tabs . Music All - new user interface . Quickly skip to prior or next track by swiping left or right ( respectively ) on album art when in the Now Playing screen in the Music app . Picture frame Ability to pick an event . Multitasking gestures with 4 or 5 fingers : ( iPad 2 only until iOS 5.0. 1 ) Pinch to return to the Home screen . Swipe up to open multitasking tray . Swipe left or right to move between open apps . AirPlay mirroring Ability to connect with AirPlay to an Apple TV ; whatever is displayed on an iOS devices screen is mirrored on the TV . Videos Ability to play 1080p content . 5.0. 1 9A405 9A406 04.11. 08 3.00. 03 05.16. 05 07.11. 01 1.0. 14 ( Build 9A406 ) November 10 , 2011 ( 9A405 ) December 12 , 2011 ( 9A406 ) Bug fixes , security update Attempted to fix battery drain bug . Fixes bugs affecting iCloud mail push . Adds Multitasking Gestures ( for original iPad ) . Resolves bugs with Documents in the Cloud . Improves voice recognition for Australian users using dictation . Contains security improvements . Activates the LED camera flash , whether the speaker is muted or not , for incoming calls and messages , when activated within the Accessibility sub-menu . Introduces a new way for developers to specify files that should not be backed up. iPhone 4S only ( Build 9A406 ) Attempts to fix `` Invalid Sim '' and `` No SIM card installed '' issues . Baseband update .