Outside of the United States and Canada , Spider - Man : Homecoming earned $140.5 million its opening weekend from the 56 markets it opened in , with the film becoming number one in 50 of them . The $140.5 million was the highest opening ever for a Spider - Man film , factoring in the same number of markets and 2017 's exchange rates . South Korea had the highest Wednesday opening day gross , which contributed to a $25.4 million five - day opening in the country , the third highest opening ever for a Hollywood film . Brazil had the largest July opening day of all time , with $2 million , leading to an opening weekend total of $8.9 million . The $7 million earned from IMAX showings was the top opening of all time for a Sony film internationally . In its second weekend , the film opened in France at number one and number two in Germany . It earned an additional $11.9 million in South Korea , to bring its total in the country to $42.2 million . This made Homecoming the highest grossing Spider - Man film and the top grossing Hollywood film of 2017 in the country . Brazil contributed an additional $5.7 million , for a total of $19.4 million from the country , which was also the largest gross from a Spider - Man film . The film 's third weekend saw the Latin America region set a record as the highest - grossing Spider - Man film of all - time , with a region total of $77.4 million . Brazil remained the top grossing market for the region , with $25.7 million . In South Korea , the film became the 10th highest - grossing international release of all time . Homecoming opened at number one in Spain in its fourth weekend . In its sixth weekend , the film opened at number one in Japan , with its $770,000 from IMAX the fourth largest IMAX weekend for a Marvel film in the country . The film opened at number one in China on September 8 , 2017 , grossing $23 million on its opening day , including Thursday previews , making it the third biggest opening day for a Marvel Cinematic Universe film , behind Avengers : Age of Ultron and Captain America : Civil War , and the largest opening day gross for a Sony film in the country . The $70.8 million Homecoming earned in China for its opening weekend was the third highest opening behind Age of Ultron and Civil War , with $6 million from IMAX , which was the best IMAX opening weekend in September , and the best IMAX opening weekend for a Sony film . As of September 24 , 2017 , the film 's largest markets were China ( $115.7 million ) , South Korea ( $51.4 million ) , and the United Kingdom ( $34.8 million ) .