1967 : I 'm Sorry the Bridge Is Out , You 'll Have to Spend the Night and its sequel , Frankenstein Unbound ( Another Monster Musical ) , are a pair of musical comedies written by Bobby Pickett and Sheldon Allman . The casts of both feature several classic horror characters including Dr. Frankenstein and his monster . 1973 : The Rocky Horror Show , is a British horror comedy stage musical written by Richard O'Brian in which Dr. Frank N. Furter has created a creature ( Rocky ) , to satisfy his ( pro ) creative drives . Elements are similar to I 'm Sorry the Bridge Is Out , You 'll Have to Spend the Night . 1973 : Andy Warhol 's Frankenstein . Usually , the doctor is a man whose dedication to science takes him too far , but here his interest is to rule the world by creating a new species that will obey him and do his bidding . 1974 : Young Frankenstein . Directed by Mel Brooks , this sequel - spoof has been listed as one of the best movie comedies of any comedy genre ever made , even prompting an American film preservation program to include it on its listings . It reuses many props from James Whale 's 1931 Frankenstein and is shot in black - and - white with 1930s - style credits . Gene Wilder portrayed the descendant of Dr. Frankenstein , with Peter Boyle as the Monster . 1975 : The Rocky Horror Picture Show is the 1975 film adaptation of the British rock musical stageplay , The Rocky Horror Show ( 1973 ) , written by Richard O'Brien . 1984 : Frankenweenie is a parody short film directed by Tim Burton , starring Barrett Oliver , Shelley Duvall and Daniel Stern . 1985 : The Bride starring Sting as Baron Charles Frankenstein and Jennifer Beals as Eva , a woman he creates in the same fashion as his infamous monster . 1986 : Gothic , directed by Ken Russell , is the story of the night that Mary Shelley gave birth to Frankenstein . Starring Gabriel Byrne , Julian Sands , Natasha Richardson . 1988 : Frankenstein ( フランケン シュタイン ) is a manga adaptation of Shelley 's novel by Junji Ito . 1989 : Frankenstein the Panto . A pantomime script by David Swan , combining elements of Frankenstein , Dracula , and traditional British panto . 1990 : Frankenstein Unbound . Combines a time - travel story with the story of Shelley 's novel . Scientist Joe Buchanan accidentally creates a time - rift which takes him back to the events of the novel . Filmed as a low - budget independent film in 1990 , based on a novel published in 1973 by Brian Aldiss . This novel bears no relation to the 1967 stage musical with the same name listed above . 1995 : Monster Mash is a film adaptation of I 'm Sorry the Bridge Is Out , You 'll Have to Spend the Night starring Bobby Pickett as Dr. Frankenstein . The film also features Candace Cameron Bure , Anthony Crivello and Mink Stole . 1998 : Billy Frankenstein is a very loose adaptation about a boy who moves into a mansion with his family and brings the Frankenstein monster to life . The film was directed by Fred Olen Ray . 2003 : Reading Frankenstein , a new media performance work in which Mary Shelley is a genetic engineer and artificial life scientist and her Creature a hybrid form of computational a-life . It was co-created by director Annie Loui and artist - writer Antoinette LaFarge for UC Irvine . 2004 : Frankenstein made - for - TV film based on Dean Koontz 's Frankenstein . 2005 : Frankenstein vs. the Creature from Blood Cove , a 90 - minute feature film homage of classic monsters and Atomic Age creature features , shot in black and white , and directed by William Winckler . The Frankenstein Monster design and make - up was based on the character descriptions in Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley 's novel . 2009 : The Diary of Anne Frankenstein , a short film from Chillerrama . 2009 : Anuman Interactive ( French publisher ) launches Frankestein , a hidden objects game freely inspired by Mary Shelley 's book , on iPhone and iPad . 2011 : Frankenstein : Day of the Beast is an independent horror film based loosely on the original book . 2011 : Victor Frankenstein appears in the ABC show Once Upon a Time , a fantasy series on ABC that features multiple characters from fairy tales and classic literature trapped in the real world . 2012 : Frankenweenie , Tim Burton 's feature film remake of his 1984 short film of the same name . 2012 : In the Adventure Time episode `` Princess Monster Wife '' , the Ice King removes body parts from all the princesses that rejected him and creates a jigsaw wife to love him . 2012 : A Nightmare on Lime Street , Fred Lawless 's comedy play starring David Gest staged at the Royal Court Theatre , Liverpool . 2014 : I , Frankenstein is a 2014 fantasy action film . The film stars Aaron Eckhart as Adam Frankenstein and Bill Nighy . The film is based on the graphic novel . 2014 : Frankenstein , MD , A web show by Pemberly Digital starring Victoria , a female adaptation of Victor . 2015 : The Supernatural season 10 episodes Book of the Damned , Dark Dynasty and The Prisoner feature the Styne Family which member Eldon Styne identifies as the descendants of the house of Frankenstein . According to Eldon , Mary Shelley had learned their secrets while on a visit to Castle Frankenstein and wrote a book based on her experiences , forcing the Frankensteins underground as the Stynes . The Stynes , through bioengineering and surgical enhancements , feature many of the superhuman features of Frankenstein 's monster . 2015 : The Frankenstein Chronicles , is a British television drama series - starring Sean Bean as John Marlott and Anna Maxwell Martin as Mary Shelley 2016 : Second Chance , a TV series known at one point as Frankenstein , was inspired by the classic .