Sharaun Brown signed with Elite Model Management in Chicago and LA . Nikeysha Clarke is still searching for an agency . Marjorie Conrad signed with Look Model Agency in San Francisco and was featured in the American Apparel Daily Update and opened a Marciano Fashion Show . In April 2014 , she was working on her directorial debut `` Chemical Cut '' and launched a funding campaign on the website Kickstarter . Clark Gilmer competed for Miss South Carolina USA earning her a spot in the top 10 . She is a full - time professional model living in Los Angeles with boyfriend Kenny Florian . She appears on Enrique Iglesias music video `` Tonight ( I 'm Fuckin ' You ) '' and Taylor Swift music video `` Mean . She has appeared in Bravo 's The Millionaire Matchmaker as a date for one of the millionaire bachelors . '' She also made two appearances on the hit TV show How I Met Your Mother , one in 2010 and the other one in 2011 as Barney Stinson 's date . Lauren Brie signed with Major Model in New York , MGMT First in New York , Muse Management in New York , L.A. Models , Nova Models in New Zealand and signed with Priscilla 's Model Management in Sydney , Australia under the name `` Brie . '' Elina Ivanova has signed with TCM Models & Talent in Seattle and Vision Models in Los Angeles since 2013 and then signed with Elite Model Management in LA . Isis King successfully underwent gender reassignment surgery and is now an anatomical female ; she had done test shots which were featured in The Tyra Banks Show together with her surgery . She also appeared on America 's Next Top Model , Cycle 17 , the first all - star edition of the show . In 2012 , she became American Apparel 's first openly transgender model . Joslyn Pennywell has done some test shoots and now lives in Los Angeles . She has modeled for Reset Couture and appeared in a commercial . She walked at the Runway On Fire Fashion Show and Trendsetters fashion show . She also appeared in BET 's The Family Crews and Bravo 's The Millionaire Matchmaker as a date for one of the millionaire bachelors . Samantha Potter signed with L.A. Models and has walked for designers Individuals by AMFI , EиD by Eva and Delia , Ready to Fish by Ilja Visser and Addy van de Krommenacker at Amsterdam International Fashion Week 2009 as part her prize in episode 10 . She also appeared as one of the `` Top Models in Action '' in Cycle 12 . In 2008 , she appeared in The Big Bang Theory in the episode `` The Panty Piñata Polarization '' , along with contestant Analeigh Tipton , but her role was a non-speaking one . Potter also appeared in gospel artists Mary Mary 's music video for God In Me . Sheena Sakai signed with Model Management Group and Roman Personal Management . She has also modeled for 1800whoopass , appeared in a Trojan condoms commercial and walked in BET 's Rip the Runway 2009 . as well as She by Sheree SS 2010 . Sakai also appeared on America 's Next Top Model , Cycle 17 , the first all - star edition of the show . Brittany Rubalcaba left the modelling industry to further her education . McKey Sullivan collected all of her prizes and signed with Elite Model Management in Chicago . She was featured in the December 2008 issue of In Touch Weekly . She appeared on the cover and had a spread in the February 2009 issue of Seventeen magazine as part of her ANTM prize package . She also has been on the cover of Forest & Bluff Magazine , January 2009 issue and Nylon Magazine , March 2009 . She has recently been featured on Yahoo Style with Whitney Thompson . She had the cover and a spread in Chicago Scene , June 2009 , as well as various advertisements for Forever 21 , Rendezvous , Myer , Crabtree and Evelyn and Sass and Bide . She also appeared on the September 2009 issue of Marie Claire modelling Oroton , Fendi and Miu Miu handbags and purses . Sullivan was featured on the Cover Fall 2009 cover and interior fashion spread of Vogue knitting magazine . She walked for EиD by Eva and Delia , Mada van Gaans , Ready to Fish by Ilja Visser and Addy van den Krommenacker at Amsterdam International Fashion Week 2009 as part her prize in episode 10 . McKey also walked for G - Star at Mercedes - Benz Fashion Week Fall 2009 . She walked in Trinidad and Tobago Fashion Week 2009 for Heather Jones Designs Limited . She appeared in Dutch Avantgarde with Samantha Potter . She also appeared on the runway for Mr. Jay 's clothing line called `` attitude '' along with cycle 12 contestant with Aminat Ayinde . During her My Life as a CoverGirl commercials , it was revealed that she had been working with the Make - A-Wish Foundation . She was named one of People magazine 's Most Beautiful People of 2009 . She was also named the 44th sexiest woman of 2008 by BuddyTv . Analeigh Tipton signed with Abrams Artists Agency , in both the commercial and theatrical divisions and Ford Models in Los Angeles . She has appeared in campaigns for Forever 21 , and Guess . She made her acting breakout starring as Jessica in the movie Crazy , Stupid , Love . Her acting has also booked her modeling campaigns for Teen Vogue , Maxim , Details , and Nylon . She starred in an American zombie romantic film Warm Bodies based on Isaac Marion 's popular novel of the same name which was released on February 1 , 2013 . In 2014 , she was one of the leads in the ABC television series Manhattan Love Story before it was canceled due to low ratings . Hannah White has taken test shots and is now signed with Nous Model Management .