MC Hammer ( Stanley Kirk Burrell born March 30 , 1962 ) is an American emcee and hip - hop dancer , most popular during the late 1980s to mid-1990s . His flamboyant dance style , which was a significant part of his performances , influenced the early development of Hyphy . As an entertainer , Hammer 's shows and music videos included unique elements popularized by James Brown and The Nicholas Brothers ; such as splits , leaps and slides . Moves such as the `` Hammer Dance '' ( or the `` Typewriter '' Dance ) , the `` Butterfly '' and the use of `` The Running Man '' dance , among others , were unlike anyone else at the time . Hammer won many awards as well as being nominated for his dancing and choreography . Erick Hawkins ( April 23 , 1909 -- November 23 , 1994 ) was an American dancer and choreographer . He was a graduate of Harvard . Erick was inspired by the dancing of Harald Kreutzber and Yvonne Georgi . In the 1930s he was the first American student of George Balanchine . He became a soloist and the first male dancer in Martha Graham 's dance company . Hawkins and Graham lived together for eight years , but soon after marrying the relationship fell apart . The influence of her work on Hawkins is legendary . Erick Hawkins is known as one of the revolutionary pioneers of radical modern dance through his original choreography and evolution of a new theory and technique of modern dance . `` Dance is the most beautiful metaphor of existence in the world . '' is one of Erick 's beautiful quotes . Sir Robert Helpmann ( 9 April 1909 -- 28 September 1986 ) . Noted Australian dancer , actor , theatre director , and choreographer . Co-director of the Australian Ballet during the 1960s and 1970s . Tatsumi Hijikata ( March 9 , 1928 - January 21 , 1986 ) was a Japanese choreographer , and the founder of a genre of dance performance art called Butoh . By the late 1960s , he had begun to develop this dance form , which is highly choreographed with stylized gestures drawn from his childhood memories of his northern Japan home . It is this style which is most often associated with Butoh by Westerners . Hijikata was an innovator in movement technique . He was a master of the use of energy qualities in constructing expressive movement . He would use sounds , paintings , sculptures , and words to construct movement , not exclusively in a formal or literal memetic application , but by integrating these elements via visualization into the nervous system to produce movement qualities that could be very subtle , light , angelic and ghost - like , or demonic , heavy , dark , grotesque , violent and extreme . Gregory Oliver Hines ( February 14 , 1946 -- August 9 , 2003 ) was an American actor , singer , dancer and choreographer . Hong 10 ( born 16 February 1985 in South Korea ) is a male South Korean B - Boy . As of 2007 , he has won more than 20 competitions as an individual or as a member of a crew , and has been termed `` the best B - Boy in the world '' . His accomplishments include both a Red Bull BC One individual title ( 2006 ) and a Battle of the Year crew title ( 2002 ) . He also was a judge at the 2007 Battle of the Year world finals . Hong 10 is recognized as a superb all - around B - boy able to dynamically hit beats with floorwork , freezes , uprock / toprock and powermoves - not to mention the rare ability to mix all of them in a set . His breakdancing features bridge - like floor work , sharp execution , and an arsenal of signature moves . These all showcase not only the complex nature of his dance , but also his creativity . Lester Horton ( January 23 , 1906 - November 2 , 1953 ) was an American dancer , choreographer , and teacher . Lester Horton was born in Indianapolis , Indiana . Choosing to work in California ( three thousand miles away from the center of modern dance - New York City ) , Horton developed his own approach that incorporated diverse elements including Native American dances and modern Jazz . Horton 's dance technique ( Lester Horton Technique ) emphasises a whole body approach including flexibility , strength , coordination , and body awareness to allow freedom of expression . Horton trained a number of the mid-20th century 's best - known modern dancers , including Alvin Ailey , Carmen de Lavallade , and Bella Lewitzky , as well as dance teacher James Truitte , Broadway dancer James Mitchell , and the gay activist Harry Hay . Finola Hughes , an English dancer and actress , most noted for her appearance in the film Staying Alive . Trained in England at the Arts Educational Schools London , she subsequently worked extensively in London musical theatre , including the original West End cast of the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical Cats . Currently resides in the United States , where she works predominantly as a television actress , most notably portraying the role of Patty Halliwell in Charmed . Doris Batcheller Humphrey ( October 17 , 1895 -- December 29 , 1958 ) was a dancer of the early 20th century . In Chicago , she both studied and taught dance , opening her own dance school in 1913 at the age of 18 . In 1917 , she moved to California and entered the Denishawn School of Dancing and Related Arts , where she studied , performed , taught classes , and learned choreography . Her creations from this era , `` Valse Caprice '' ( `` Scarf Dance '' ) , `` Soaring '' , and `` Scherzo Waltz '' ( `` Hoop Dance '' ) are all still performed today . Humphrey toured the Orient for two years , followed by a successful career in American vaudeville theaters . One of her last pieces , `` Dawn in New York '' , featured the strengths she demonstrated throughout her career -- her mastery of the intricacies of large groups , and her emphasis on sculptural shapes .