Roger Ebert of The Chicago Sun - Times gave it 3 stars out of 4 , stating that : `` It devotes a great deal of time to aerial battles between tamed dragons and evil ones , and not much to character or story development . But it 's bright , good - looking , and has high energy '' . Claudia Puig of USA Today gave it 3.5 out of 4 stars , saying , `` It 's a thrilling action - adventure saga with exhilarating 3 - D animation , a clever comedy with witty dialogue , a coming - of - age tale with surprising depth and a sweetly poignant tale of friendship between man and animal . '' Rolling Stone film critic Peter Travers praised the film , giving it three out of four stars and in his print review wrote , `` ( The film ) works enough miracles of 3 - D animation to charm your socks off . '' Roger Moore of The Orlando Sentinel , who gave the film 21⁄2 stars out of 4 , wrote a mixed review describing the film as a `` more coming - of - age dramedy or ' everything about your world view is wrong ' message movie than it is a comedy , and that seems like a waste of a funny book , some very funny actors and some darned witty animation . '' Kyle Smith of the New York Post gave the film 2 / 4 stars labeling the film as , `` Avatar for simpletons . But that title is already taken , by Avatar '' . Contrarily , Brett Michel of The Boston Phoenix stated that the film was better than Avatar . A.O. Scott of At The Movies felt the characters and the story were not strong points , but loved the cinematography and said , `` that swooping and soaring , they are worth the price of a ticket , so go see it . '' Village Voice film critic Ella Taylor gave a more negative review of the film , describing it as an `` adequate but unremarkable animated tale '' . Film critic James Berardinelli of ReelViews praised the film and its story , giving it 3.5 out of 4 stars he wrote , `` Technically proficient and featuring a witty , intelligent , surprisingly insightful script , How to Train Your Dragon comes close to the level of Pixar 's recent output while easily exceeding the juvenilia DreamWorks has released in the last nine years . '' Entertainment Weekly film critic Owen Gleiberman praised the film giving it an A - and wrote , `` How to Train Your Dragon rouses you in conventional ways , but it 's also the rare animated film that uses 3 - D for its breathtaking spatial and emotional possibilities . '' ViewLondon 's Mathew Turner gave the film 4 / 5 stars , calling it , `` beautifully animated and superbly written '' , and praised the voice cast , humor , and action . Matt Risley of Variety gave the film a perfect score of 5 / 5 stars , hailing it as , `` undoubtedly Dreamworks ' best film yet , and quite probably the best dragon movie ever made '' .