Episode Number Episode Title Summary 1 . `` Strangers on a Train '' The lads are reunited by chance , after five years , aboard a homeward - bound train . Unfortunately for Bob , he inadvertently becomes stranded at Doncaster railway station , with fiancée Thelma waiting for him on the platform at Newcastle . 2 . `` Home Is the Hero '' Terry , newly demobbed from the Army , finds it hard to adjust to all the changes which have occurred in his home town during the five years he 's been away . 3 . `` Cold Feet '' Due to a misunderstanding , Terry causes havoc between Bob and Thelma , leading Bob to get cold feet about the wedding . 4 . `` Moving On '' A depressed Terry decides to go around the world with his old army pal , Hughie McClaren , who lives conveniently nearby in Berwick upon Tweed . 5 . `` I 'll Never Forget Whatshername '' Terry , now back home again , looks up some of his old flames . His lack of success with them makes him self - pitying and Bob smug , until it emerges that Terry may once have had a drunken fling with Thelma on a coach trip to Blackpool Illuminations . 6 . `` Birthday Boy '' Terry becomes depressed when he thinks everyone has forgotten his birthday . A surprise party organised by Bob goes wrong when someone else is accidentally invited to it instead but when he finally arrives , Terry manages inadvertently to offend most of the other guests . 7 . `` No Hiding Place '' The Lads try to avoid learning the result of an England football match before the TV highlights are shown that evening . Flint ( Brian Glover ) tries to spoil it for them , having bet them £ 10 that they wo n't get through the day without learning the result . The lads arrive at the point of viewing the TV highlights none the wiser about the score , except for Terry seeing a newspaper headline that says `` England F ... '' . When Flint tracks them down to Bob 's new house , an angry Terry pays him off with £ 10 ( borrowed from Bob ) . After all that , the match turns out to have been postponed due to a waterlogged pitch : `` England Flooded Out ... '' This episode was remade by Ant & Dec for ITV in 2002 , featuring a cameo appearance by Rodney Bewes as the old newspaper seller . 8 . `` Guess Who 's Coming to Dinner ? '' Concerned with Terry 's lack of social activities , Bob invites him to a dinner party at Alan and Brenda 's . The occasion turns into a disaster , with Terry inadvertently causing havoc . 9 . `` Storm in a Tea Chest '' Thelma forces Bob to throw out all his treasured childhood possessions ( kept in two battered old tea chests ) while hypocritically hanging on to all of hers . 10 . `` The Old Magic '' At an upmarket restaurant , the Lads test out whether they still have ' the old magic ' . 11 . `` Count Down '' The countdown to Bob 's wedding - day begins . Terry , who despises the over-elaborate wedding preparations , finds an unexpected ally in Thelma 's father George , a staunchly working - class builder . Stirred up by Terry 's ridicule , the three men decide to rebel ... 12 . `` Boys Night In '' The night before the wedding : Bob refuses to have an old - fashioned stag night , preferring a quiet night in with a cup of cocoa and a game of Ludo . Terry tries to get him in the party mood nonetheless ; and as a result , they end up in a police cell . 13 . `` End of an Era '' Bob and Thelma are finally married . Things will never be the same again : old ways , old days , gone forever . Or are they ?