The role of Jack Abbott was first written into the series in June 1980 , being portrayed by Terry Lester . In May 1985 , it was announced that Lester would be leaving the role ; he stated that it was because of a CBS film ( Blade ) he starred in which could have possibly became a series : `` I wanted to work something out . I 've enjoyed being with the show . However , I was concerned about the possibility of Blade being picked up as a series and being tied to The Young and the Restless . '' However , he ended up staying . The writers picked up on Lester having `` played with Jack 's dialogue '' according to his intuitions . In 1989 , Lester quit out of anger , as he felt that Jack was being `` squeezed '' out of the storyline , and was upset that Lauralee Bell 's character Christine Blair was moved to the forefront of several storylines . The producers immediately began exploring recast options . At the time , Bergman , who had rose to super stardom as Dr. Cliff Warner on All My Children , had recently been fired . Bergman 's firing made headlines , and Melody Thomas Scott , who portrays Nikki Newman , suggested Bergman as Jack to her husband and former executive producer Edward J. Scott when she read of the news in Soap Opera Digest . Bergman revealed that the producers had contacted his agent and asked about his height ; he initially thought it was a joke . They then inquired about Bergman 's feelings about replacing someone , and he was hesitant to take the role . He stated in 2009 : `` I was on All My Children and replacing someone was sheer death , and it never worked on All My Children . '' When the producers called him again , Bergman was not doing well financially and he decided it `` could n't hurt '' to audition . Scott arranged for Bergman to come to California and audition with Jerry Douglas and Jess Walton , who portrayed John and Jill Abbott respectively . After a successful audition , Bergman was offered the part . Bergman reluctantly relocated to California after accepting the part . He made his debut on November 27 , 1989 .