All eight of the film 's original songs were retained for the Broadway adaptation . The song `` Human Again '' had originally been written for the film , but it was ultimately abandoned due to time and story constraints ; the musical number was finally resurrected for and included in the production . Composer Alan Menken , who had both scored and written the film 's songs alongside lyricist Howard Ashman , returned to the project to write six new songs for the musical . Lyricist Tim Rice joined Menken to co-write the new numbers , replacing Ashman who had died in 1991 , before the film was released . Both Menken and Rice initially approached the project with some resistance ; Menken 's emotional attachment to the music he had written with Ashman made him fear Disney 's vision of a Broadway musical would transform Beauty and the Beast into an attraction too similar to what one would find at Walt Disney World . Meanwhile , Rice , who had previously worked as composer Andrew Lloyd Webber 's lyricist on the Broadway musicals Jesus Christ Superstar and Evita , was hesitant to replace Ashman in fear of worsening Beauty and the Beast . Notably , Rice had similarly replaced Ashman to write the remaining songs for Disney 's Aladdin ( 1992 ) after the lyricist died . Ultimately , the collaboration resulted in approximately half of the Broadway score having co-writing credits by Menken and Ashman , while the remaining half are Menken and Rice compositions . The Menken - Rice songs are sometimes billed as `` additional songs composed by ( Alan ) Menken and lyrics by Tim Rice . '' On working on the musical without Ashman , Menken explained that `` The main challenge ... was blending the lyrics of Tim Rice with those of Howard . In the end , the finished score has a quality all its own ; a hybrid between '' Ashman and Rice 's styles . Elaborating on the main difference between writing songs for the stage as opposed to film , Menken stated that the lack of close - ups and montages in a live musical production creates a requirement for more singing material in order `` to provide the same kind of illumination that intimate facial expression provides . ''