Robert Forster as Bud Baxter ( seasons 1 , 3 -- 4 ) , Mike 's widower father who is initially in the construction business , but later opens a marijuana store after it becomes legal in Colorado . Erika Alexander as Carol Larabee ( seasons 2 -- 5 ) , Chuck 's wife and Mike and Vanessa 's neighbor . She is also Vanessa 's best friend . Vanessa often goes overboard trying to act racially open - minded around her , but usually ends up looking foolish and annoying Carol . Carla Jimenez as Blanca Alvarez ( seasons 2 -- 4 ) , the Baxters ' Guatemalan - born housekeeper who also helps Mandy with her fashion business . The Baxters were happy to celebrate with Blanca after she was sworn in as an American citizen . Sarah Gilman as Cammy Harris ( seasons 2 -- 6 ) , Eve 's soccer teammate and extremely chatty best friend . Jonathan Taylor Thomas as John Baker ( seasons 2 -- 3 ) , Kristin 's boss at a fancy restaurant where she works . Thomas also guest - starred as `` Randy '' ( a nod to his Home Improvement character ) in the season 4 episode `` Helen Potts '' , with fellow Home Improvement co-star Patricia Richardson . Christina Moore as April ( seasons 1 & 3 ) , Vanessa 's air - headed and immature younger sister . She is always asking for money . Danielle Bisutti as Michelle ( season 1 ) , Vanessa 's friend and next - door neighbor ; she is a meteorologist who gets most of her data from a free phone app . Tye Sheridan as Justin ( seasons 3 -- 4 ) , Eve 's fellow Jr . ROTC member and football teammate who becomes her boyfriend . The two break up in season 4 . Zachary Gordon as Andrew ( season 3 ) , Eve 's nerdy classmate who worships her and desperately wants to be her boyfriend . Joely Fisher as Wendi Gracin ( seasons 3 -- 5 ) , Ed 's meddling younger girlfriend , whom he meets near the end of season three . Ed routinely has to put her in her place , particularly when she tries to get involved in decisions pertaining to his business . Wendi deserts Ed offscreen between Seasons 4 and 5 , but the two patch things up and reunite . Jay Leno as Joe Leonard ( seasons 5 -- 6 ) , a semi-retired auto technician from whom Vanessa buys a classic car for Mike . Joe later works in the repair shop at Outdoor Man , servicing ATVs and snowmobiles . Travis Tope as Rob ( season 6 ) , Eve 's boyfriend who is studying criminal justice at UC Boulder . He 's a recovering alcoholic , which worries Mike and Vanessa when they first meet him .