According to the song , the Edmund Fitzgerald was bound `` fully loaded for Cleveland '' . In fact , the ship was heading for Detroit , where it was set to discharge its cargo of taconite iron ore pellets before docking in Cleveland for the winter . Capt . Ernest McSorley had stated in his last radio transmission before the ship sank that he and the crew were `` holding our own . '' What the cook or any other crew member said or did not say will never be known . The `` old cook '' in the song was actually a replacement for this particular voyage , as the normal cook was too ill to make the trip . Lightfoot refers to Mariners ' Church of Detroit as `` The Maritime Sailors ' Cathedral '' in the lyrics . Lightfoot says that the bell was rung 29 times , once for each crew member aboard the ship . Internet sources often incorrectly claim that the bell was also rung once more in honour of all people who had lost their lives at sea , for a total of 30 times . Reverend Richard W. Ingalls , Sr. , rector of Mariners ' Church , tolled the bell 29 times , not 30 . The practice of tolling a bell an additional time for all lives lost at sea began in memorial services following 1975 . In a later live recording , Lightfoot recounts that a parishioner of the church informed him that the church is not `` musty . '' From that time , instead of singing `` In a musty old hall ... '' , he now sings `` In a rustic old hall ... '' In March 2010 , Lightfoot changed a line during live performances to reflect new findings that there was no crew error involved in the sinking . The line originally read , `` At 7 p.m. a main hatchway caved in ; he said ... '' ; it is now sung as `` At 7 p.m. it grew dark , it was then he said ... '' . Lightfoot learned about the new research when contacted for permission to use his song for a History Channel documentary that aired on March 31 , 2010 . Lightfoot has stated that he has no intention of changing the original copyrighted lyrics ; instead from now on , he will simply sing the new ones during live performances .