No. in series No. in season Episode Title `` Study Date '' Dolly moves her study date with a cute boy , Ritesh , from the library to home because she has to help Avatar take care of Nikki when Himani goes back to work . Avatar injures himself falling down the stairs , so Rohan has to take him to the hospital where Himani works , leaving Dolly to watch Nikki . `` Baby Come Back ! '' Dolly encourages her parents to go out while the kids take care of the baby . Rohan flirts with a cute girl , Punam ( Shivani Joshi ) , while minding Nikki and accidentally brings the wrong baby home . After a failed search , the kids go to tell their parents at a restaurant and find Nikki sitting with the cute girl 's family a few tables over . `` Narendra Tauji -- A Cricket Freak '' Dolly finds she has an Narendra Tauji ( English : uncle her father does n't speak of ; she visits him and they go to a cricket game , where she realizes why they never got along . Sunny and Rohan try to make money modelling Nikki for a baby store ad . `` Dinku the Donkey '' Himani pressures Dolly to be in the school play , Dinku the Donkey , and she gets the part despite trying to blow the audition . A baby basketball match is set between Nikki and Popi 's nephew . 5 5 `` Up a Tree ! '' Roli Aunty agrees to bring her dog inside if Avatar cuts down a tree , but Dolly and Rohan stage a sit - in to save their childhood treehouse . Avatar wages war against his disobedient kids while Himani gives them her support . 6 6 `` The Curious Case of Mr. Surinder '' Dolly is annoyed that her best friend Pam has become `` texting buddies '' with Himani , so she attempts to bond with Pam 's boring mother . Sunny and Rohan investigate when they mistakenly believe that Roli Aunty has killed her husband . 7 7 `` Nikki Did It ! '' Nikki sets off a shoplifting alarm at a drugstore , and she , Sunny , and Nikki are put in holding . Neeti , an awkward girl from Dolly 's school , works there and aids their escape . Rohan and Popi create a jingle for an Avatar Bijlee commercial . 8 8 `` Dance Off '' Dolly asks Ritesh to the school dance on a double date with Pam and Popi . The boys start a `` dance - off '' over Dolly , but end up bonding , leaving Dolly feeling left out . Sunny tries to get Himani and Avatar to fight at his PTA meeting to maintain his excuse for not doing homework . 9 9 `` Boys Meets Girls '' Rohan delivers food for Kukkad Nukkad ( a chicken restaurant ) and falls for a customer , Richa , who he obsesses over , causing friction with Popi . Avatar used to date Richa 's mom , which causes trouble with Himani . Dolly tries to help Sunny with a school bully , Guri , who is actually a girl with a crush on him . Fatima Sana Shaikh as Richa Shivoy 10 10 `` Nikki is 1 ! '' On Nikki 's birthday the family reminisce about her birth , three weeks early , and a scramble to get to the hospital . Avatar and Rohan found a bear sleeping in their car and befriend farmers for a ride . Home alone , Sunny has the best unsupervised day of his life until Roli takes him to the hospital . Dolly and Pam , in full costume for a kids ' play , track down Himani 's doctor at his son 's birthday party . 11 11 `` Billi Butterfly The Cat '' Dolly cat - sits for Roli Aunty , whose sister enlists a cat therapist to cheer up the pet . Sunny tells a girl he likes that he 's an only child living with his single mother ( to have things in common with her ) and enlists Dolly into helping him maintain the facade when she shows up at their busy home . 12 12 `` Dolly 's Little Helper '' Dolly tries to impress her Hindi teacher by bringing Nikki to class in costumes for a presentation , but Nikki vomits on the teacher and makes the class sick as well . Himani stands in for Avatar as Sunny 's football coach , and they win their first game ever ; the team hire her but her `` have fun '' approach does n't work as well the next game . Meanwhile , Rohan takes Nikki to Nani ghar and bonds with the Nani moms . 13 13 `` Chunni Go Bye - Bye '' The kids throw a surprise anniversary dinner for their parents , but Nikki loses her blankie and wo n't stop crying . Chaos ensues as Rohan gets locked out of the house with Nikki inside . Meanwhile Sunny takes Avtaar and Himani to the movies but Himani gets stuck watching ' Robot No. 1 , a movie she hates . 14 14 `` Nikki goes Viral '' Rohan makes a viral video of Nikki farting ; this attracts the local news where Himani seizes the spotlight and Avatar tries to promote his business . Dolly meets Ritesh 's parents and loves their tidy and quiet house , while in contrast they see the chaotic Farty Nikki newscast . 15 15 `` Singhs 's Got Talent '' After agreeing to do a routine for the community talent show , Ritesh sees how bad a dancer Dolly is and fakes an injury . Popi abandons a ventriloquist act with Rohan to partner with Dolly , resulting in chaos at the show . Guri convinces Sunny she wants to help him run for class monitor , but instead smears him to bolster her own campaign . 16 16 `` Kukkad Nukkad '' Dolly becomes the new spokesmodel for Kukkad Nukkad which seems like the perfect job until she realizes how much Rohan wanted the role . Avatar endeavours to capture a mouse and Sunny tries to prank him . Himani takes Nikki to a Music & Me class and gets over-competitive with another mother . 17 17 `` Girl Bites Dog '' Dolly worries about her relationship with Ritesh after nikki bites his fingerand later Dolly discovers him with another girl , Maya . She dumps him after he lies about it . Sunny tricks Rohan into an unfavourable contract for money to buy an old used car . To teach him a lesson , Himani , Avatar and Rohan try to convince Sunny that the car is haunted . 18 18 `` Butt - Dialing Singhs '' Dolly flatters Himani as a `` cool mom '' so she can attend a midnight movie with Pam , but pocket dials Himani who overhears it was an act . Himani and Pam 's mom get revenge by publicly embarrassing the girls . Rohan pocket - dials his intimidating lab partner , Sandy , who overhears how stupid Rohan thinks he is . Sunny and Avatar assemble Sunny 's new toy helicopter , while Sunny is driven crazy by Nikki 's new toy `` Bak Bak Bandar '' . 19 19 `` Dolly 's Broken Heart Band '' Recovering from her breakup , Dolly befriends Maya and with Pam they make a music video about Ritesh ; however , when he stops by to apologize Dolly decides to not upload it . Rohan and Sunny clash over sharing a room , and Sunny decides to sneak into the room Roli Aunty has kept for her son . Himani joins a gym with free babysitting but spends her time at a spa . 20 20 `` Dolly Rebounds '' Kaustubh , a mature 11 - year - old boy arrives in the neighbourhood and convinces Dolly to be his date to a cousin 's birthday party . When she learns Ritesh has a new girlfriend , Sheena , Dolly says she is also dating but is caught out . Rohan and Popi add a third member to their band ; when Nikki gets him sick , Avatar steps in to perform but takes his role too far . 21 21 `` Winter Vacation ( Part 1 ) '' A psychic tells Dolly she will become a film star during the family vacation , and she starts to believe it . Himani and Avatar discover they were never officially married ( the judge was a fraud ) but Avatar does n't want to abandon their planned ski vacation to correct the mistake . Rohan tumbles down a hill to a cabin with two beautiful teenaged girls , which seems like heaven until their seven - foot dad arrives . 22 22 `` Winter Vacation ( Part 2 ) '' Dolly is desperate to audition for a movie 's heroine ; she ends up stuck with Popi who is part of the film unit . Sunny and Rohan enter a tango competition to make money . Avatar tries to make up with Himani by planning a surprise wedding . 23 23 `` Nikki In Charge '' Sunny and Guri must babysit Nikki while completing a school project . Dolly tricks a fearful Rohan into going to the dentist , but breaks her tooth in the process and is drooling and swollen for her school debate . Avatar tries to surprise Himani with a day spa but needs her help on an emergency extermination call . 24 24 `` Stolen Bike '' When Nikki develops a habit of pushing buttons , Sunny blames her for leaving the garage door open and the theft of his bicycle -- which he sold to a friend . Avatar investigates to catch Sunny in his lie . For film class , Dolly chooses to reenact her parents telling her they were expecting a baby . Himani gets involved and overdoes it , driving Dolly to say how she really felt at the time . Popi 's new girlfriend seems to be hitting on Rohan , but she has an identical twin . ( Guest : Tara Sutaria as Nina and Tina . ) 25 25 `` Sleepless in Delhi '' Dolly prepares to audition for the school play but Nikki draws in ink all over her face . Nikki refuses to sleep in her first `` big girl '' bed . Sunny has his first sleepover in a backyard tent , under which the lawn sprinklers go off . Rohan eats too much bacon and has nightmares of becoming fat . 26 26 `` Dolly 's Birthday '' Avatar wo n't take Dolly to practise driving so she drives Roli Aunty around . They run out of gas then get stuck in the mud , so Dolly comes home a mess and walks into a surprise 17th birthday party . Sunny brings home a huge dog that Himani does n't want in the house until she realizes it 's gentle ; she 's heartbroken when the dog 's rightful owner collects it . Special No. 1 Special No. 1 `` Happy Diwali ! '' The Singhs decide to go for a Diwali vacation to Udaipur but have numerous transportation difficulties involving a milk van , a missed train , and an errant flight . They decide to return home and Himani becomes upset with Avatar , but they discover their house decorated with lights by Pam and Popi as a surprise to cheer up Dolly . They all celebrate Diwali . Special No. 2 Special No. 2 `` Happy Holi ! '' On the day of Holi , Avatar learns that a very special business person is visiting their house to arrange a business deal . He tells Himani to send kids away so that his deal wo n't be affected by them , but everything turns out to be the opposite .