Harry S. Truman ended his re-election bid in 1952 after losing the New Hampshire primary . Lyndon Baines Johnson dropped his 1968 reelection bid after performing far below expectations in the New Hampshire primary . In the 1972 Democratic primaries , George McGovern was initially considered a dark horse but he had better - than - expected second - place finishes in Iowa and New Hampshire and eventually won the nomination ; frontrunner Edmund Muskie who won both contests instead lost momentum . George H.W. Bush won the Iowa caucus in 1980 , leading him to claim that he had `` Big Mo '' ( momentum ) over frontrunner Ronald Reagan . However , Reagan won the New Hampshire primary and several others to take the nomination . In the 1988 Republican presidential nomination , Bush , serving as Reagan 's vice president , unexpectedly finished third in Iowa which Bob Dole won . Dole was also leading in New Hampshire polls but ended up losing that primary as he failed to counterattack ads from Bush . Bush had no serious trouble clinching the nomination afterward . Gary Hart was initially not considered a serious contender in 1984 , which featured former Vice President Walter Mondale as the frontrunner . However , Hart had a respectable showing in Iowa and then stunned Mondale in New Hampshire , the latter where Hart had started campaigning months earlier . This resulted in a long primary battle , with Mondale eventually emerging as the nominee after Super Tuesday III . Pat Buchanan 's 2nd place showing in the 1992 and win in the 1996 New Hampshire primaries coincided with the weakness of the future nominees , incumbent George H.W. Bush , and Senator Bob Dole respectively , Bush and Dole subsequently lost the general election . In 1992 , then Governor Bill Clinton 's better - than - expected second - place finish in New Hampshire salvaged his campaign and he went on to win the nomination , following on to be elected President with a 43 % plurality . Senator John McCain upset George W. Bush in the New Hampshire primary in 2000 , Bush 's frontrunner campaign had initially not expected serious opposition after other potential candidates like Elizabeth Dole and Dan Quayle decided not to run . McCain 's new - found momentum ended after his defeat in the South Carolina primary ( see below ) , and though he pulled out wins in Michigan and his home state of Arizona , his campaign was ended by Super Tuesday . In the 2004 primaries , John Kerry , whose campaign had been sagging in prior months , won the Iowa caucus while John Edwards unexpectedly finished second , over heavily favored Howard Dean and Richard Gephardt ( the latter two had been trading negative attacks in the weeks leading up to the vote ) . Gephardt immediately ended his campaign , while Dean 's post-concession speech drew negative attention . Kerry went on to overcome Dean 's initial lead in New Hampshire to win that primary , and eventually the Democratic presidential nomination . In 2008 , frontrunner Hillary Clinton , whose campaign initially banked on a knockout victory in Iowa , unexpectedly finished third in that caucus behind winner Barack Obama and John Edwards . Clinton then pulled off a comeback victory in New Hampshire where Obama had been leading the polls . Although Obama and Clinton were largely well matched in most of the subsequent primaries , Obama 's better organization and uncontested caucus victories were crucial to his winning the Democratic nomination . In 2008 , John McCain , initially struggling among Republican contenders in 2007 , decided to skip Iowa and concentrate on New Hampshire ( the same primary where he had unexpectedly triumphed back in 2000 ) and McCain 's win rejuvenated his presidential campaign and he became the Republican nominee . Rudy Giuliani and Mitt Romney , two candidates who had each led in the polls in 2007 , did not perform as expected in Iowa and New Hampshire . In 2012 , Mitt Romney was initially reported to be the first Republican non-incumbent presidential candidate , since the Iowa caucus started in 1976 , to win both the Iowa caucus ( albeit , by an 8 - vote margin over Rick Santorum ) and New Hampshire primary . However a final count released by the Iowa state party sixteen days after the caucus contest reported Santorum as the winner by 34 votes over Romney , but by then Romney had already won New Hampshire by a comfortable margin .