No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written & storyboarded by Story by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) 36a 1a `` Return to Mewni '' `` The Battle for Mewni : Part 1 '' Dominic Bisignano & Aaron Hammersley Dominic Bisignano , Aaron Hammersley , Zach Marcus , & Cassie Zwart Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy July 15 , 2017 ( 2017 - 07 - 15 ) SPE 0.51 As Marco 's parents try to console him about Star leaving , Star and Moon try to take the Magical High Commission to the sanctuary , but their carriage breaks down due to the fritz . They encounter some of Ludo 's rats , who attempt to abduct the still soulless Commission members , but they fight them off . They eventually reach the sanctuary , but the well spring that is supposed to revive the Commission has been affected by the fritz . Moon urges Star to stay in the Sanctuary , to which she objects until Moon reveals that Toffee killed her mother . She then begins telling Star the story of how she defeated Toffee with help from Eclipsa , who she reveals is still alive . 36b 1b `` Moon the Undaunted '' `` The Battle for Mewni : Part 2 '' Dominic Bisignano , Aaron Hammersley & Giancarlo Volpe Dominic Bisignano , Sabrina Cotugno , Kristen Gish , & Aaron Hammersley Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy July 15 , 2017 ( 2017 - 07 - 15 ) SPE 0.51 Moon shares her story revolving around the death of her mother ( Star 's grandmother ) at the hand of Toffee when she was a teenager . Moon was set to decide between signing a peace treaty or going to war against the monster army , led by Toffee . Since Toffee is immortal , Moon approaches Eclipsa , who is revealed to have been held in suspended animation inside a crystal prison for 300 years , to learn a dark magic that can destroy him . They forge a magic pact ; in return for Eclipsa teaching Moon the magic , she would be set free once Toffee is defeated . She then confronts Toffee and uses the dark magic . However , it misses and only severs his finger , which he is unable to regenerate . Seeing their immortal leader wounded causes the monster army to panic and flee with Toffee following suit . 37a 2a `` Book Be Gone '' `` The Battle for Mewni : Part 3 '' Brett Varon Madeleine Flores , Brett Varon , & Nicolette Wood Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy July 15 , 2017 ( 2017 - 07 - 15 ) SPE 0.51 Ludo wakes up to find his wand is now fused with his hand is told by Glossaryck how he ( technically Toffee ) defeated the Magic High Commission . Ludo wants to celebrate by writing his story into the Book of Spells , but the book no longer recognizes him as it 's owner and will not let him . After multiple failed attempts and different approaches , he ultimately throws the book into a fire in a fit of rage , destroying it along with Glossaryck . While Ludo is initially horrified at what he had done , Toffee , through the wand , convinces him that the book was a distraction and that he is now ready to take Butterfly Castle . 37b 2b `` Marco and the King '' `` The Battle for Mewni : Part 4 '' Dominic Bisignano & Aaron Hammersley Dominic Bisignano , Jushtin Lee , & Amelia Lorenz Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy July 15 , 2017 ( 2017 - 07 - 15 ) SPE 0.51 King River tries to take care of the kingdom by partying it up every day , but he and his subjects wear down quickly . Marco arrives , but River has to deal with angry villagers as well as a large monster who approaches the castle after he yelled at it to leave . River tries to hide , but Marco encourages him to stand up to the monster . River rallies the villagers to fight the monster , and it is revealed that the monster thought River was beckoning it to come to the castle , not to go away . It leaves peacefully , but as River is about to have a party to celebrate , Ludo and his minions appear and they take over the kingdom . 38a 3a `` Puddle Defender '' `` The Battle for Mewni : Part 5 '' Tyler Chen & Giancarlo Volpe Tyler Chen , Gina Gress , & Sarah Oleksyk Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy July 15 , 2017 ( 2017 - 07 - 15 ) SPE 0.51 With the sanctuary flooded with sludge , Star and Queen Moon flee and find a new hiding place at Buff Frog 's . Star wants to sneak out to fight , so she gets Buff Frog to distract Moon with some Mewman board games such as Puddle Defender , which Moon realizes is biased towards monsters , and Buff Frog accuses Moon of being biased towards Mewmans . After a heated argument , they eventually reconcile , and Buff Frog blows Star 's cover and forbids her from leaving . However , Buff 's youngest tadpole , Katrina , later sneaks Star out . 38b 3b `` King Ludo '' `` The Battle for Mewni : Part 6 '' Brett Varon Casey Crowe , Evon Freeman , & Brett Varon Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy July 15 , 2017 ( 2017 - 07 - 15 ) SPE 0.51 Ludo has taken over the kingdom , and has imprisoned Marco and River , but he finds that he is not popular at all among the kingdom 's villagers . He tells River to make him popular or else he will levitate him into the sky . Marco uses a stick of butter that Ludo left to free himself , but River has eaten his part of the butter which leaves Marco with no choice but to steal Ludo 's key . He meets with some of the court entertainers , and they steal the key , but River refuses to escape . Ludo levitates River into the sky while Marco and the entertainers conspire what to do next . 39 `` Toffee '' `` The Battle for Mewni : Part 7 '' Dominic Bisignano , Tyler Chen & Aaron Hammersley Dominic Bisignano , Tyler Chen , Sabrina Cotugno , Kristen Gish , Aaron Hammersley , Zach Marcus , & Cassie Zwart Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy July 15 , 2017 ( 2017 - 07 - 15 ) SPE 0.51 Star gets captured while attempting to attack Ludo , but she also realizes that he is being manipulated by Toffee . Marco and the entertainers try to rescue her , only to get captured themselves . While Moon and Buff Frog rescue Marco , Ludo finally realizes something is wrong and asks Star about his wand . She then uses the whispering spell , which causes a huge explosion that transports her to the Realm of Magic . Here she encounters Toffee , who reveals that the fritz is a result of him corrupting the realm . Toffee talks to Moon through Ludo and they make a deal ; Toffee 's finger in exchange for Star . Toffee is revived , but he does n't honor the deal . Star desperately searches the Realm of Magic for untainted magic , eventually finding some with help from Glossaryck . She is then revived with a new wand and Mewberty form and gravely injures Toffee , leaving him to be finished off by Ludo . Ludo then has Star to send him back to the void so that he can find himself while River is brought back to Mewni by a family of eagles . Remembering her magic pact with Eclipsa , Moon rushes to check on her crystal prison , which is still intact . However , as soon as she leaves , it begins to crack . 40a 5a `` Scent of a Hoodie '' Brett Varon Madeleine Flores , Brett Varon , & Nicolette Wood Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 6 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 06 ) 305 0.30 After helping defeat Toffee , Marco says goodbye to Star and returns to Earth , but he is missing his hoodie . Unknown to him , Star has been keeping his hoodie , but Pony Head arrives and throws it into the Royal Laundry for cleaning . Star tries to get the hoodie back from the Knight of the Wash , who insists it be cleaned to the highest standards . In spite of her efforts , the hoodie is eventually cleaned , but she is ecstatic that it has retained Marco 's scent . It is then shipped back to Earth where Marco receives it and is curious that his hoodie also has Star 's scent . 40b 5b `` Rest in Pudding '' Dominic Bisignano & Aaron Hammersley Dominic Bisignano , Jushtin Lee , Amelia Lorenz , & Kenny Pittenger Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 6 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 06 ) 305 0.30 Star 's family and the Magic High Commission hold a memorial for Lekmet . Star notices Glossaryck in almost every waking moment that she starts believing he is haunting her over unfinished business . She contacts Janna for help and proceeds to tell her that anything that remains of Glossaryck must be properly buried in a place of meaning for him . Star then takes the remains of Glossaryck 's spell book and throws it into the well at the sanctuary . Star believes it 's over , only for Glossaryck to then be reborn . However , he has amnisia , with the only word he can pronounce being `` Globgor '' . 41a 6a `` Club Snubbed '' Tyler Chen Tyler Chen , Gina Gress , & Sarah Oleksyk Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 7 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 07 ) 306 0.26 During the annual Silver Bell Ball , all neighboring kingdoms ' rulers come to attend . Star is snubbed by Tom when his family arrives . After attempting to do the same by dancing with her other male dance partners , she then eventually confronts him alone to ask him why . Tom answers by saying he 's giving her space since he was present during Song Day , from which he misinterpreted that she and Marco are in a relationship . She denies this , and eventually reluctantly asks him to dance , which they begin to enjoy , and the Ball is declared a success . 41b 6b `` Stranger Danger '' Brett Varon Casey Crowe & Charlotte Jackson Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 7 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 07 ) 306 0.26 Star runs into Eclipsa , who is now free of her crystal prison . However , their friendly talk is interrupted by Moon and the Magic High Commission , who capture Eclipsa . Star asks why Eclipsa was crystalized and is outraged that it was just because she married a monster . While Moon and the Commission do n't trust Eclipsa and want to re-crystalize her , Star convinces them to give her a fair trial . In the meantime , Eclipsa is put under house arrest . Star later visits her and they start a friendship . 42a 7a `` Demoncism '' Dominic Bisignano & Aaron Hammersley Zach Marcus , Kenny Pittenger , & Cassie Zwart Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 8 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 08 ) 307 0.25 A jittery Pony Head confides to Star that Tom is undergoing a `` demoncism , '' which is meant to turn him into a more normal , tamed being . They secretly infiltrate the ceremony for Star to rescue Tom , but the demoncism goes ahead as scheduled , only for its organizer to reveal that he still has plenty of rage in him . They are then seen holding hands , much to Pony Head 's dismay . 42b 7b `` Sophomore Slump '' Tyler Chen Tyler Chen , Sabrina Cotugno , & Kirsten Gish Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 8 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 08 ) 307 0.25 On Earth , Marco begins to spout so much of his adventures in Mewni that his friends , peers , and teachers begin to distance themselves from him except for Janna . Jackie suspects that he is n't letting go of these so easily , so Marco takes her out on a date to prove he 's moved on and a better boyfriend to her . Upon discovering he is secretly hiding the cape King River gave to him on Mewni under his hoodie , she tells him that he 's only staying in Echo Creek to make her happy for her sake . She kindly breaks up with him and leaves . Deciding he wants to return to Mewni as an exchange student , his family and friends see him off . 43a 8a `` Lint Catcher '' Brett Varon Madeleine Flores , Brett Varon , & Nicolette Wood Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 9 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 09 ) 308 0.40 Marco arrives on Mewni , but Star feels indifferent over his presence . She gives him a job below the castle as a squire to Knight of the Wash , Sir Lavabo . After a brief conversation with Eclipsa , Star runs back to the Royal Washroom to find Marco fighting off a giant lint monster . They eventually defeat it by turning on the lint blade catcher . Star apologizes to Marco and as an act of good faith , she magically creates an exact replica of his bedroom in the castle and appoints him as her own squire . 43b 8b `` Trial by Squire '' Dominic Bisignano & Aaron Hammersley Jushtin Lee , Amelia Lorenz , & Kenny Pittenger Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 9 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 09 ) 308 0.40 Star and Marco prepare for the Midnight Warrior Blowout Sale at Quest Buy . During the event , they meet fellow shoppers who will stop at nothing to get the best knight gear . After meeting female squire Higgs , she ridicules Marco by telling him that in spite of being named squire , it was handed to him under the impression that he 's Star 's boyfriend , which he denies . With all their efforts , Star reassures him that she only named him squire so they can go on adventures again like they used to . They finish the blowout sale by buying random , fun things instead of suitable knight gear much to the praise of the knights and Higgs ' chagrin . 44a 9a `` Princess Turdina '' Tyler Chen Tyler Chen , Gina Gress , & Sarah Oleksyk Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 13 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 13 ) TBA 0.33 Marco is set to receive an honorary degree from St. Olga 's for inciting the rebellion . Pony Head approves of this and insists that he does everything to maintain the facade of Princess Turdina , but Star wants him to reveal the truth . Marco decides to listen to Ponyhead , in order to maintain the self - esteem of the princess 's of St. Olga 's but also because they are throwing a party and building a statue of Princess Turdina . Miss Heinous arrives at the Party and reveals that `` Princess Turdina '' is a boy , and Marco confirms the truth . Miss Heinous says that just as the Princesses need her , she needs them , but the Princesses are unfazed by the truth , stating that his gender does n't matter , as her message of being true to yourself is true as well , and chase Miss Heinous off once more . 44b 9b `` Starfari '' Brett Varon Casey Crowe & Charlotte Jackson Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 13 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 13 ) TBA 0.33 Star goes out into the field to understand why Mewmans treat Monsters unfairly . She meets the expert on the subject , the Royal Monster Examiner , who initally seems to understand Star 's point of view , but eventually reveals that she simply sees Monsters as animals and wants to put them in a sanctuary , by blowing up a dam and surrounding the monster village with water . Star manages to save village with Buff Frog and the other Monster 's help , and then , when the Monster Examiner decides to `` live like a monster '' in the mud , Star gives her position to Buff Frog . 45a 10a `` Sweet Dreams '' Tyler Chen & Aaron Hammersley Sabrina Cotugno & Amelia Lorenz Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 14 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 14 ) TBA 0.41 Star has a dream that she is flying and eating goblin dogs to her heart 's content , only to wake up in her bedroom with Marco growing concern . To test her theory she has Marco watch her late at night with him chained to her , where he is dragged and discovers that she transforms into her butterfly form and is traveling through various dimensions into one portal . He wakes her up and with the help of Glossryck and Eclipsa , they manage to return to Mewni . Eclipsa suggests to Star that her dreams should be embraced openly as to understand what she is truly capable of . 45b 10b `` Lava Lake Beach '' Dominic Bisignano & Aaron Hammersley Zach Marcus , Kenny Pittenger , & Cassie Zwart Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 14 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 14 ) TBA 0.41 Star , Marco , Tom , and Kelly head out to Lava Lake Beach . Kelly however does n't feel too inclined on joining in too long with their festivities , so she wanders off alone . Marco chases after her , where she confides to him that she has broken up with her boyfriend Tad , but he is still living in her thick layer of hair and wo n't leave . Marco steps inside and tries to casually tell Tad that Kelly wants to move on , but Tad then easily guesses that Marco himself is miserable because of hidden feelings for his crush on Star . Conflicted , Marco runs off only to see Star kissing Tom from afar . Kelly finds him alone and offers to show him a grand view of the entire beach . He asks her if it 's already midnight to which she answers yes , indicating it 's Marco 's birthday . 46a 11a `` Death Peck '' Brett Varon Madeleine Flores , Kenny Pittenger , Brett Varon , & Nicolette Wood Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 15 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 15 ) TBA 0.38 Star urges the royal youth of Mewni to sign a petition calling for the equal treatment of Monsters . The only young royal who has not signed it , is Rich Pigeon , so Star , Marco and Ponyhead go to convince him . Marco assumes that Rich Pigeon is merely a normal pigeon and tries to make him sign the petition , but accidentally breaks his leg . The other Pigeons retaliate violently , and eventually capture the three , and plan on killing Marco through a slow execution called , `` Death by a Thousand Pecks '' in which Marco is apprently pecked repeatedly until he dies . However , Rich Pigeon intervenes , having learnt the common Mewmen language , in an attempt to help his kingdom and agrees to sign the petition believing it to be the path to a better future . 46b 11b `` Ponymonium '' Dominic Bisignano & Aaron Hammersley Dominic Bisignano , Kirsten Gish , Jushtin Lee , & Kenny Pittenger Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 15 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 15 ) TBA 0.38 Star is thrilled when Pony Head invites her to dinner with her sisters . Ponyhead claims that her sisters are dangerous and scheming , but they appear very nice and kind , making Pony Head seem like the mean one , who eventually leaves in anger after an argument . The Sisters begin to become very close to star , and eventually reveal their intention to frame Pony Head for the ( False ) Murder of one of the sisters , as doing so would result in Pony Head losing the right to succeed to the throne . Pony Head reveals that she knew their plan and used Star to simply prove it , having captured the conversation on video . Star leaves completely bewildered and confused by the relationship of the family , after Pony Head reveals that she still loves her sisters regardless . 47a 12a `` Night Life '' Tyler Chen Tyler Chen , Gina Gress , & Sarah Oleksyk Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 16 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 16 ) TBA 0.34 Marco is going around helping Hekapoo dealing with Rouge interdimensional portals as they open up in seemingly random places , but at the cost of ignoring his duties as squire to Star , which includes taking care of Glossaryck , who since being revived seems to have lost his mind , repeating the words , `` Glob Gore '' and acting like an animal . Marco lies to Star , not telling her about the truth of his adventures and continues to help Hekapoo close portals . Hekapoo reveals that she has managed to find the source of the problem , which causes Marco to panic , as it is revealed that Star is the cause ; while she is asleep , and when she enters her butterfly form , she travels through various dimensions but fails to close any of her portals , which Marco and Hekapoo have been dealing with . Hekapoo discovers that Star can not control her form and power , but Marco convinces her to not tell the high - council . He also reveals the truth to Star who thanks him for his help . 47b 12b `` Deep Dive '' Brett Varon Dominic Bisignano , Casey Crowe , Aaron Hammersley , Charlotte Jackson , Kenny Pittenger , & Brett Varon Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 16 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 16 ) TBA 0.34 Star decides to find out what is causing her transformations into her Butterfly form in her sleep and she enlists Janna 's help to do so . They attach a camera to her head in her sleep . It is revealed the Star is attracted to a portal but as she passes through the camera is knocked off and Marco begins to panic . Star wakes up in the realm of magic where she meets the First - Born , a unicorn of her own creation when she purified her magic from Toffee 's taint . Star begins to lose focus and her memories as she enjoys her time in the Realm of Magic . Marco in a last ditch attempt , uses Star 's wand and activates the All - seeing eye spell and manages to contact Star and brings her back to her senses . After returning Star is able to enter in and out of her butterfly form at will . 48 13 `` Monster Bash '' Dominic Bisigano , Tyler Chen , & Aaron Hammersley Dominic Bisignano , Tyler Chen , Sabrina Cotugno , Amelia Lorenz , Zach Marcus , & Cassie Zwart Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy November 16 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 16 ) TBA 0.29 Star decides to hold a party that unites both Mewmans and Monsters at an old palace , but when guests start disappearing one by one under unknown circumstances , she and Marco investigate . They soon discover in the palace 's underground chamber that Mina Loveberry has been camping out capturing unsuspecting monsters to keep order . At the same time , Miss Heinous barges in on them to get her revenge on Marco , only for her to recognize the chamber was once her old nursery as a young child . In a stunning revelation to Star and Marco , Mina explains that Miss Heinous is - in actuality - Eclipsa 's daughter Meteora , thus making her a Butterfly . Before Mina can capture Meteora , Star demands to know more , but it leads to a conflict between the two . The party guests flee as the Magic High Commission raid the palace , leaving Star only further curious about these turn of events . Miss Heinous is last seen fleeing into the woods where she readopts her true name as Meteora . 49a 14a `` Stump Day '' Tyler Chen Tyler Chen , Gina Gress , & Sarah Olesyk Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy December 2 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 02 ) 314 0.30 Stump Day is a holiday in Mewni where the people thank the stump , a literal tree stump that was pivotal in the formation of their kingdom . Star 's birthday falls on Stump day , but she never celebrates it as she says that they must pray to the stump , but Marco decides to hold her birthday anyway , as no one except Star believes that the Stump is real . However it proves to be real and attack them as they did not thank it that day . However it leaves , as soon as midnight passes since Stump Day ends , sparing their lives . 49b 14b `` Holiday Spellcial '' Brett Varon Casey Crowe & Charlotte Jackson Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy December 2 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 02 ) 314 0.30 The Spells within Star 's wand are ready to celebrate Stump Day , but they are all nervous about Star 's new spell , Seeing - Eye , who says nothing and watches everyone . Spider in a Top Hat attempts to make sure it gets along with the others , but Seeing - Eye only ruins the situation by telling the truth to everyone , and revealing their dark and shameful secrets . He eventually reveals Spider 's secret which is where he vented his frustrations at all the other spells when no one would get along with each other , and just as everyone is leaving , Seeing - Eye understands its mistakes , and remedies the situation by showing other truthful scenes where everyone is expressing their love for each other . 50a 15a `` The Bogbeast of Boggabah '' Brett Varon Madeleine Flores , Aaron Hammersley , Brett Varon , & Nicolette Wood Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy March 3 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 03 ) 315 0.18 Star tells Moon about Meteora , but her claims are dismissed . River then forces her to go on a hunt for the Bogbeast of Boggabah with him . Star is warned by a ' Bogbeast veteran ' to listen for the bogbeasts song . Star and River then go through several rituals that Star rushes causing them to have to start over . That night Star hears the bogbeast 's song and rushes after it getting trapped in mud . River then reveals that she is the Bogbeast as she is impulsive and runs headfirst into situations . Having learned to keep impulsiveness in check , Star decides to stay for a bog party instead of going straight to Moon . 50b 15b `` Total Eclipsa the Moon '' Dominic Bisignano & Aaron Hammersley Dominic Bisignano , Kristen Gish , Jushtin Lee , & Kenny Pittenger Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy March 3 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 03 ) 315 0.18 Moon grows curious over Star 's claims about Eclipsa 's daughter . According to the Butterfly Family book Eclipsa 's daughter 's is called Festivia . However , Eclipsa claims to have never heard of her . To find out the truth , Moon and Eclipsa team up and secretly infiltrate the Magical Archives , where the entire history of the Butterfly family is held . They eventually find Eclipsa 's scroll only to discover anything about her daughter was rewritten . They then flee back to the castle after Moon accidentally trips the alarm . Eclipsa becomes concerned about her daughter , but Moon assures her they 'll find what happened to her . 51a 16a `` Butterfly Trap '' Sabrina Cotugno Sabrina Cotugno & Amelia Lorenz Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy March 10 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 10 ) TBA 0.36 Eclipsa 's trial begins . Moon uses the Truth or Punishment Cube and allows every member of the Magic High Commission to ask Eclipsa one question . However , it soon becomes a mock - trial where everything Eclipsa says is used against her . About to be declared guilty , it 's revealed that she is allowed to ask them a question as well . She then asks the Commission about Meteora , who they deny to have any knowledge about . However , the cube reveals that they are lying and forces them to reveal the truth : Eclipsa 's ex-husband , King Shastacan , had them replace her with Festivia , who was actually a peasant . It 's then revealed that Moon , Eclipsa and Star were suspicious of the Commission and set - up the whole trial . Outraged that they are not the true royal family , Star frees Eclipsa and runs off . 51b 16b `` Ludo , Where Art Thou ? '' Dominic Bisignano & Aaron Hammersley Dominic Bisignano , Aaron Hammersley , Zach Marcus , & Cassie Zwart Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy March 10 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 10 ) TBA 0.36 Ludo 's brother Dennis stumbles upon dimensional scissors at their family home , so he decides to use it to find his brother . Ludo 's minions Spider and Eagle volunteer by venturing into each portal , but to no success in finding him . Spider senses something in one portal , so Dennis ventures into it and finds Ludo having a mental breakdown in a makeshift home with their parents made up of various objects to keep himself company . Dennis unsuccessfully tries various ways to convince Ludo to come home , but Ludo ultimately comes to realize that he 's just not ready to return home yet . Dennis wishes him the best and returns to his own dimension , leaving Ludo pondering over Star and Marco . 52a 17a `` Is Another Mystery '' Brett Varon Madeleine Flores , Brett Varon , & Nicolette Wood Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy March 17 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 17 ) TBA 0.30 Marco comes across a message from Buff Frog that he 's leaving Mewni along with his children and other fellow monsters , so Star and Tom venture to his swamp where he tells them that there 's no room for them on Mewni anymore due to the discrimination of their kind escalating . Although they try to persuade them otherwise - including Tom expressing his half - monster heritage - Buff Frog ultimately decides to depart , but reassures Tom and Star that he will stay vigilant if he is ever needed by them . 52b 17b `` Marco Jr . '' Brett Varon Casey Crowe & Charlotte Jackson Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Higgins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy March 17 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 17 ) TBA 0.30 Marco and Star return to Earth to find out that he will soon have a baby brother named after him . He soon has a Mewni painter paint a portrait of him as a present to his new sibling , but the painter gets his image wrong , and the distorted magic painting disfigures him . 53a 18a `` Skooled ! '' Dominic Bisignano & Aaron Hammersley Dominic Bisignano , Kristen Gish , Aaron Hammersley , Jushtin Lee , & Kenny Pittenger Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Haggins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy March 24 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 24 ) TBA 0.23 Pony Head returns to St. Olga 's Reform School , just as Meteora breaks into the facility with Gemini and Rasticore to find the robot maid who raised her , St. Olga . She has Gemini hack into her to discover what she knows about her true origins . It is revealed that King Shastacan gave Meteora to St. Olga as a baby , who then brainwashed her and taught her to despise her monster side . Believing they have come to retake the school , the princesses fight them but are defeated , with Meteora taking Pony Head 's horn . Terrified of Meteora , Rasticore tries to flee . However , Meteora destroys Gemini , revealing he 's a robot , with the resulting explosion reducing Rasticore back to an arm . Meteora then takes Rasticore and announces her intentions to take the throne of Mewni for herself . 53b 18b `` Booth Buddies '' Tyler Chen Dominic Bisignano , Tyler Chen , Gina Gress , Aaron Hammersley , & Sarah Oleksyk Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Haggins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy March 24 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 24 ) TBA 0.23 During Foolduke 's and Ruberiot 's wedding , Star finds photo - booth and drags Marco inside to take a photo . However , Star is unsatisfied with it and forces Marco to redo them until they 're perfect . The photo - booth breaks down , locking them inside . The photo - booth repair goblin , Ben Fotino , claims that the booth is magic and that they must take a sincere photo for it to release them . Star and Marco discuss how their relationship has been since Star confessed that she had a crush on Marco before finally taking a sincere photo that ultimately leads to them kissing , leaving them both flabbergasted and dumbstruck . Ben then reveals that he actually locked them inside in hopes this would happen , having deduced they had feelings for each other . Afterwards , Star and Marco agree to keep what happened between them . 54a 19a `` Bam Ui Pati ! '' Brett Varon Dominic Bisignano , Madeleine Flores , Aaron Hammersley , Brett Varon & Nicolette Wood Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Haggins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy March 31 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 31 ) TBA 0.32 Pony Head has fallen into a depression due to the loss of her horn , refusing to leave her room or talk to anyone while becoming addicted to soap operas . Star and her sisters try to cheer her up , but she runs away with them giving chase . Pony Head eventually snaps out of her depression after her favority soap opera manages to get a happy ending . She then agrees to get a horn transplant and returns to her former self , much to everyone 's annoyance . 54b 19b `` Tough Love '' Dominic Bisignano & Aaron Hammersley Dominic Bisignano , Kristen Gish , Aaron Hammersley , Jushtin Lee , & Kenny Pittenger Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Haggins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy March 31 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 31 ) TBA 0.32 Moon and Eclipsa travel to the Pigeon Kingdom upon learning that Meteora has been leaving a trail of destruction there . With help from a local named Eddie , they eventually locate her and discover that she is now a huge monster as result of feeding on souls . Eclipsa convinces Moon to allow her to talk to her daughter and the two share a happy reunion until Meteora demands the throne of Mewni , which Eclipsa denies . Moon and Meteora fight each other and just as Meteora is about to win Eclipsa declares her love for her daughter , hoping they could start over . Moon uses this as an opportunity to counterattack . However , Eclipsa stops Moon , allowing Meteora to drain half her soul . Moon and Meteora then both flee , leaving a distraught Eclipsa by herself . 55 20 `` Divide '' ( Part 1 ) Dominic Bisignano , Aaron Hammersley , & Brett Varon Dominic Bisignano , Gina Gress , Aaron Hammersley , Zach Marcus , Sarah Oleksyk , Brett Varon , & Cassie Zwart Dominic Bisignano , Bryan Caselli , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Haggins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy April 7 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 07 ) 320 0.35 With Moon missing , Star is made acting queen , but struggles with the responsibility . As Meteora heads towards the castle , Star sends Marco to hold her off while she looks for her mother . Marco forms a team composed of himself , Tom , Pony Head , Hekapoo , Talon and Kelly and attempt to trap her , but their plan fails and they are forced to flee with Meteora giving chase . Meanwhile , Star deduces that Moon is in the Realm of Magic and heads there . She eventually finds her mother , who has regained the other half of her soul , but suffers from amnesia due to the realm 's influence . Star continuously tries to bring her home , but eventually succumbs to the realm 's effects herself . 56 21 `` Conquer '' ( Part 2 ) Dominic Bisignano , Tyler Chen , Aaron Hammersley , & Brett Varon Tyler Chen , Sabrina Contugno , Casey Crowe , Aaron Hammersley , Charlotte Jackson , & Amelia Lorenz Dominic Bisignano , Aaron Hammersley , Amy Haggins , John Infantino , & Daron Nefcy April 7 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 07 ) 321 0.37 Marco and his team once again try to trap Meteora , only for it to fail again . Everyone , with the exception of Tom , then has their soul drained . Meanwhile , the amnesiac Star and Moon fool around in the Realm of Magic , until the First - Born sends them away . Star then wakes up in her bed , with Moon still missing . As River fights Meteora , Star and Tom try to reach the sanctuary to attempt to revive Marco , but they are unable to access it . Tom proposes they flee to his realm , but seeing that Meteora has defeated River convinces Star that she must face her . She heads back to the castle and confronts Meteora , they fight and just as Star is about to be defeated Eclipsa takes her wand and regresses Meteora into a baby . As everyone 's souls return , Star allows Eclipsa to keep her wand as she believes it should be hers . However , Eclipsa then flees with Meteora and Glossaryck , whose amnesia was just an act . They arrive at the monster temple , where they find Eclipsa 's monster husband , Globgor , who has also been crystallized .