Enzo , Damon , Stefan and Caroline try coming up with plans to open The Armory while Matt and Bonnie are chasing after them . While doing so , they meet an accident that injures Matt badly . Alaric and Caroline decide on making the twins open up the vault by siphoning off Bonnie 's spell . Penny 's spirit makes Matt realize that he deserves better , making him regain his consciousness . The twins open the Armory . Damon and Stefan go inside . Enzo lures Bonnie to the cabin letting Damon and Stefan buy more time . The tiny cabin gets nasty as Bonnie , unable to hold her urges , holds a stake down Enzo 's chest . While searching , Damon and Stefan finally approach the vault which Damon decides to venture in , alone . He assures Stefan that in some way or another , everything will be okay . They share a handshake and hug and part ways as Damon finally gets inside the vault . Enzo recollects of the glorious 3 years as he struggles to the impale while Damon , just in time , finds the Everlasting 's body , sets it on fire thus severing the link and lifting the curse off of Bonnie . Outside , Alaric tells Caroline to stay back with Stefan and parts ways on good terms saying that no matter what , they will always be family . Stefan and Caroline get back together . A rejoiced Bonnie forgives Damon on the phone and while he 's getting out , he starts hearing Elena 's voice . Enzo and Bonnie warn Damon that it is the vault playing tricks with his mind but he keeps following the voice and something scary overpowers him . Enzo rushes in to help encountering a strange Damon . The monster takes Enzo as well . Flashforward : Three months from now , Everybody 's trying to find Enzo and Damon , Alaric manages to crack open the code for the vault but they find it empty . Bonnie remains helpless as she lost two of her closest people and her magic never came back . Gradually , the rest start getting reports of large number of people going missing and they realize it 's them , but they do n't know where to start looking . Somewhere far off , Damon and Enzo have lost every shred of humanity and killing endless people for the sake of sport . Stefan is shown writing his journal to Elena promising that he 'll get them back and whatever Damon does in all this time , it 's not his fault .