In Los Angeles in 1984 , Rafer Johnson lit a wick of sorts at the top of the archway after having climbed a big flight of steps . The flame flared up a pipe , through the Olympic Rings and on up the side of the tower to ignite the cauldron . In Atlanta in 1996 , the cauldron was an artistic scroll decorated in red and gold . It was lit by Muhammad Ali , using a mechanical , self - propelling fuse ball that transported the flame up a wire from the stadium to its cauldron . At the 1996 Summer Paralympics , the scroll was lit by paraplegic climber Mark Wellman , hoisting himself up a rope to the cauldron . For the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney , Cathy Freeman walked across a circular pool of water and ignited the cauldron through the water , surrounding herself within a ring of fire . The planned spectacular climax to the ceremony was delayed by the technical glitch of a computer switch which malfunctioned , causing the sequence to shut down by giving a false reading . This meant that the Olympic flame was suspended in mid-air for about four minutes , rather than immediately rising up a water - covered ramp to the top of the stadium . When it was discovered what the problem was , the program was overridden and the cauldron continued up the ramp , where it finally rested on a tall silver pedestal . For the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City , Utah , United States , the cauldron was lit by the members of the winning 1980 US hockey team . After being skated around the centre ice rink there in the stadium , the flame was carried up a staircase to the team members , who then lit a wick of sorts at the bottom of the cauldron tower which set off a line of flames that travelled up inside the tower until it reached the cauldron at the top which ignited . This cauldron was the first to use glass and incorporated running water to prevent the glass from heating and to keep it clean . For the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens , the cauldron was in the shape of a giant olive leaf which bowed down to accept the flame from windsurfer Nikolaos Kaklamanakis . In the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin , Stefania Belmondo placed the flame on an arched lighting apparatus , which initiated a series of fireworks before lighting the top of the 57 metres ( 187 ft ) high Olympic cauldron , the highest in the history of the Winter Olympic Games . In the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing , the cauldron resembled the end of a scroll that lifted out from the stadium rim and spiralled upwards . It was lit by Li Ning , who was raised to the rim of the stadium by wires . He ran around the rim of the stadium while suspended and as he ran , an unrolling scroll was projected showing film clips of the flame 's journey around the world . As he approached the cauldron , he lit an enormous wick , which then transferred the flame to the cauldron . The flame then spiralled up the structure of the cauldron before lighting it at the top . In the 2010 Winter Olympics at Vancouver , a team of athletes ( Catriona Le May Doan , Steve Nash , Nancy Greene and Wayne Gretzky ) were to simultaneously light the base of poles , which would then carry the flames upwards to the cauldron . However , only three out of four poles came out of the ground due to mechanical problems , resulting in inadvertently excluding Le May Doan from lighting it with the other three athletes . Because the site of the ceremonies - BC Place - was a domed stadium , Gretzky was sent via the back of a pick - up truck to a secondary site -- the Vancouver Convention Centre which served as the International Broadcast Centre for these Olympics -- to light a larger cauldron of a similar design located outdoors , as Olympic rules state that the flame must be in public view for the entirety of the Olympics . In the closing ceremonies , Le May Doan took part in a joke about the mechanical glitch , and she was able to light the fully raised fourth pole and have the indoor cauldron relit . At the 2012 Summer Olympics in London , the flame was passed to a group of seven young British athletes who then each lit a single tiny flame on the ground , igniting 204 petals , one for each competing nation or territory . Mounted on long , hinged arms , the petals were raised and converged to form the Olympic cauldron . The cauldron that traditionally flames continuously from the opening until the closing ceremony was temporarily extinguished ( the flame itself was transferred to a lantern ) prior to the athletics events while the cauldron was moved to the southern side of the stadium . It was relit by Austin Playfoot , a torchbearer from the 1948 Olympics . In contrast to the cauldrons in Vancouver , the cauldron was not visible to the public outside the stadium . Instead , monitors had been placed throughout the Olympic Park showing the public live footage of the flame . For the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi , Russia , the cauldron was situated directly outside Fisht Olympic Stadium , the ceremonial venue for the Games . After the torch 's lap around the stadium , Vladislav Tretiak and Irina Rodnina carried the torch outside the stadium to light a larger version of the `` celebration cauldron '' used in the main torch relay at the center of the Olympic Park . A line of gas jets carried the flame from the celebration cauldron up the main cauldron tower , eventually lighting it at the top . For the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil , the cauldron was lit inside the Maracanã Stadium , the ceremonial venue for the Games , by Vanderlei de Lima . As part of these Games ' appeal towards environmental protection , organizers deliberately chose to use a basic design with a smaller flame than past cauldrons . To compensate for the smaller cauldron , it is accompanied by a larger kinetic sculpture designed by Anthony Howe . A public cauldron was lit in a plaza outside the Candelária Church following the opening ceremony . For the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang , South Korea , the flame was eventually handed to Yuna Kim , who was at the top of a set of steps . She then lit a wick of sorts , which lit a large metal flaming pillar . The pillar rose to the top of the cauldron , lighting it . The cauldron was a large white sculpture with a large sphere on the top , acting for the cauldron . The cauldron 's design was inspired by Joseon white porcelain .