sabot : a device used in a firearm to fire a projectile , such as a bullet , that is smaller than the bore diameter . safety : A mechanism used to help prevent the accidental discharge of a firearm , helping to ensure safer handling . Safeties can generally be divided into sub-types such as internal safeties ( which typically do not receive input from the user ) and external safeties ( which typically allow the user to give input , for example , toggling a lever from `` on '' to `` off '' or something similar ) . Sometimes these are called `` passive '' and `` active '' safeties ( or `` automatic '' and `` manual '' ) , respectively . sawed - off shotgun / short - barreled shotgun ( SBS ) : a type of shotgun with a shorter gun barrel and often a shorter or deleted stock . selective fire : A firearm that fires semi -- automatically and at least one automatic mode by means of a selector depending on the weapon 's design . Some selective fire weapons utilize burst fire mechanisms to limit the maximum or total number of shots fired automatically in this mode . The most common limits are two or three rounds per pull of the trigger . semi-wadcutter or SWC : A type of all - purpose bullet commonly used in revolvers that combines features of the wadcutter target bullet and traditional round nosed revolver bullets , and is used in both revolver and pistol cartridges for hunting , target shooting , and plinking . The basic SWC design consists of a roughly conical nose , truncated with a flat point , sitting on a cylinder . The flat nose punches a clean hole in the target , rather than tearing it like a round nose bullet would , and the sharp shoulder enlarges the hole neatly , allowing easy and accurate scoring of the target . The SWC design offers better external ballistics than the wadcutter , as its conical nose produces less drag than the flat cylinder . shooting range : a specialized facility designed for firearms practice . shooting sticks : are portable weapon mounts . short - barreled rifle ( SBR ) : a legal designation in the United States , referring to a shoulder - fired , rifled firearm with a barrel length of less than 16 '' ( 40.6 cm ) or overall length of less than 26 '' ( 66.0 cm ) . single - action : Usually referring to a pistol or revolver , single - action is when the hammer is pulled back manually by the shooter ( cocking it ) , after which the trigger is operated to fire the shot . See also double - action . single - shot : A firearm that holds only a single round of ammunition , and must be reloaded after each shot . slamfire : a premature , unintended discharge of a firearm that occurs as a round is being loaded into the chamber . sleeving : A method of using new tubes to replace a worn - out gun barrel . slide bite or Snake bite : A phenomenon often grouped with hammer bite -- in this case the web of the shooting hand is cut or abraded by the rearward motion of the semi-automatic pistol 's slide , not by the gun 's hammer . This most often occurs with small pistols like the Walther PPK and Walther TPH that have an abbreviated grip tang . This problem is exacerbated by the sharp machining found on many firearms . sling : is a type of strap or harness designed to allow an operator carry a firearm ( usually a long gun such as a rifle , carbine , shotgun , or submachine gun ) on his / her person and / or aid in greater hit probability with that firearm . snubnosed revolver : a revolver with a short barrel length . speedloader : A device used for loading a firearm or firearm magazine with loose ammunition very quickly . Generally , speedloaders are used for loading all chambers of a revolver simultaneously , although speedloaders of different designs are also used for the loading of fixed tubular magazines of shotguns and rifles , or the loading of box or drum magazines . Revolver speedloaders are used for revolvers having either swing - out cylinders or top - break cylinders . spitzer bullet : an aerodynamic bullet design . sporterising , sporterisation , or sporterization : The practice of modifying military - type firearms either to make them suitable for civilian sporting use or to make them legal under the law . squib load , also known as squib round , pop and no kick , or just squib : A firearms malfunction in which a fired projectile does not have enough force behind it to exit the barrel , and thus becomes stuck . Squib loads make the firearm unsafe to shoot , unless the projectile can be removed . stock : The part of a rifle or other firearm , to which the barrel and firing mechanism are attached , that is held against one 's shoulder when firing the gun . The stock provides a means for the shooter to firmly support the device and easily aim it . stopping power : The ability of a firearm or other weapon to cause a penetrating ballistic injury to a target , human or animal , sufficient to incapacitate the target where it stands . stripper clip : A speedloader that holds several cartridges together in a single unit for easier loading of a firearm 's magazine . A stripper clip is used only for loading the magazine and is not necessary for the firearm to function . silencer , suppressor , sound suppressor , sound moderator , or `` hush puppy '' : A device attached to or part of the barrel of a firearm to reduce the amount of noise and flash generated by firing the weapon . swage : To reduce an item in size by forcing through a die . In internal ballistics , swaging refers to the process where bullets are swaged into the rifling of the barrel by the force of the expanding powder gases . swaged bullet : A bullet that is formed by forcing the bullet into a die to assume its final form . swaged choke : A constriction or choke in a shotgun barrel formed by a swaging process that compresses the outside of the barrel . swaged rifling : Rifling in a firearm barrel formed by a swaging process , such as button rifling .