No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) 37 `` Time Has Come Today '' Daniel Minahan Shonda Rhimes September 21 , 2006 ( 2006 - 09 - 21 ) 25.41 The interns of Seattle Grace Hospital help Izzie cope with the loss of her fiancé , Denny Duquette as well as her decision to quit the internship program . Meredith is uncertain what the future holds after she has sex with Derek and whether he is willing to leave Addison after a marriage of eleven years . Addison finds Meredith 's panties in Derek 's tux pocket , and realizes that he slept with Meredith . After spending the night in his office , Webber is confronted by his wife , Adele ( Loretta Devine ) . She gives him an ultimatum , forcing him to decide between his career and his marriage . Addison and Alex treat a newborn baby who was found abandoned in a trash can , and they are faced with four minors who could be the mother . George seeks relationship advice from Derek after they are forced to stay under quarantine in the locker room , when Derek confesses his feeling towards Meredith . Bailey gets attached to a patient in isolation whose wife dies , and relives the moments when her husband 's life was threatened . 38 `` I Am a Tree '' Jeff Melman Krista Vernoff September 28 , 2006 ( 2006 - 09 - 28 ) 23.48 Cristina makes a bad first impression on Burke 's parents and is also surprised to find that he is a `` mama 's boy '' . Burke 's mother believes that Cristina is too selfish and driven for her son , and is only trying to take advantage of his extensive knowledge of cardiothoracic surgery . Izzie uses baking to cope with her grieving , and bakes hundreds of muffins . After pinning Meredith 's panties to a bulletin board , Addison takes a day off from the hospital and spends the day drinking . Due to Addison taking the day off , Bailey has Alex help her in the pit , and they 're faced with a teenage patient who has been impaled on a tree branch . A brain tumor patient quizzes Meredith and Cristina over their respective relationships . Webber discovers that Callie has been living in the hospital and tells her she has to leave because of hospital policy . Bailey finds the panties on the bulletin board and loses it , demanding to know who they belong to . Callie sees Meredith 's embarrassment and takes the blame , which in turn causes George to become jealous , fearing Callie might have cheated on him . A surgical patient lives what may be her last day to the fullest . Meredith must choose between Derek and Finn , and struggles coming to a decision . In the end she tells them both that she would like to try dating them both instead . 39 `` Sometimes a Fantasy '' Adam Arkin Debora Cahn October 5 , 2006 ( 2006 - 10 - 05 ) 22.80 Cristina is determined to help Burke overcome his hand tremor and get back into the operating room . Izzie attempts to return to the hospital for the first time since she left the program , but ends up standing in front of the hospital all day , unable to go in and confront Webber . Alex treats a young patient who has a long history of injuries , leading him to suspect abuse . It is discovered that she ca n't feel pain which makes her believe she is a super hero . Derek and Cristina treat a man who elects to have brain surgery so he is able to look after his child . George gets annoyed at Callie after she moves in with him , resulting in them arguing over a patient . Meredith gets annoyed as both Derek and Finn interrupt the other as they are dating her . Mark is determined to get back together with Addison , but she continuously refuses him . 40 `` What I Am '' Dan Lerner Allan Heinberg October 12 , 2006 ( 2006 - 10 - 12 ) 22.88 Meredith 's appendix bursts and she is admitted for surgery . Addison works with a pregnant woman who wants to give birth naturally , but needs to have a cesarean section . Addison begins to doubt her abilities as a surgeon after Derek broke up with her ; Addison takes Alex off her rotation . Meredith is high from the painkillers and she and Addison speak frankly and apologize to each other . The interns work with a car salesman who wants to get back to his regular routine after he has a risky surgery , however , he lights a cigarette that catches his face on fire . Derek and Mark argue over the best way to treat him , each believing that their specialty is the most important and pressing . Callie breaks things off with George after he stands her up for Izzie , and she later hooks up with Mark . Derek clears Burke for surgery again , but Burke has serious doubts about whether his hand is ready or able to perform surgery again . He keeps his doubts to himself , except to tell Cristina . He practices on a corpse and he and Cristina realize his hand ca n't perform surgery unless he has help . They decide together to hide the truth by having Cristina assist him in his surgeries . After her surgery , Meredith makes a decision between Derek and Finn , telling Finn that he is a good man and probably a better man , but Derek is `` the one '' . Izzie meets Denny 's father , who gives her 8.7 million dollars according to Denny 's wishes . 41 5 `` Oh , the Guilt '' Jeff Melman Zoanne Clack & Tony Phelan & Joan Rater October 19 , 2006 ( 2006 - 10 - 19 ) 22.05 The interns are excited to attend their first Morbidity and Mortality conference but their excitement evaporates quickly after finding out Denny Duquette is first on the agenda . Bailey is raked over the coals for letting her interns run unsupervised about the hospital for long durations. Bailey treats a young mother battling breast cancer and realizes that she blames her infant son for everything that had happened to her . Derek and Addison finalize their divorce ; Derek gives up most of their property to Addison but later learns that Mark and Addison 's relationship was not just a one - night affair and that they kept seeing each other for three months . Addison and Meredith treat a former couple who got stuck inside one another during sex , however , after separating the pair , the man has a heart attack that causes him go into surgery . In the midst of the surgery , Burke 's right hand begins to tremble again . Cristina covers for him by asking to practice her running whipstitch . Izzie decides to give up surgery after receiving Denny 's check , but she becomes re-motivated after watching Cristina operate . Callie confesses to Meredith that she slept with another man , but does n't name Mark . Meredith contemplates telling Derek about her break up with Finn , but is hesitant , despite the fellow interns telling her to let him know as fast as she can . George is surprised when Callie tells him that she broke up with him . 42 6 `` Let the Angels Commit '' Jessica Yu Stacy McKee November 2 , 2006 ( 2006 - 11 - 02 ) 21.02 Cristina scrubs in on the rare `` humpty dumpty '' surgery , much to the envy of her fellow doctors . Bailey wants to scrub in and writes her name on the surgical board as the resident in charge . Cristina erases Bailey 's name in order to cover for Burke 's hand tremor , which leads Bailey to believe that he was the one responsible for the deletion , leading her to question her talent for surgery and becoming discouraged . Derek receives a surprise visit from his sister and learns that she had slept with Mark , something that threatens their fragile friendship . George and Addison work with a pregnant woman with an unusual dilemma . Mark takes Alex off plastics after he chooses Addison 's patient over being on hold at the DMV for Mark , but he later witnesses Mark and Callie discussing their one - night stand . Izzie returns to work , but is on probation and is not allowed to talk to patients , perform any surgery , or even go into an operating room . Bailey directs Meredith to be Izzie 's boss for the day and the two treat a patient that may need to be admitted into psychiatry . At the end of the episode , Bailey witnesses Cristina reorganizing the operations board , and becomes suspicious . 43 7 `` Where the Boys Are '' Daniel Minahan Mark Wilding November 9 , 2006 ( 2006 - 11 - 09 ) 20.65 Derek invites Burke to join him on a quiet camping trip , but George , Alex , Webber , Joe and Walter come along , ruining Derek 's plans . George notices Burke 's hand tremor whilst fishing with him , but Burke brushes off George 's concerns . Addison and Callie team up to work on a patient but realize that their passion for medicine is not the only thing they share , as they had both slept with Mark and later regretted it . Alex tells George that Callie slept with Mark , and he is unable to accept the truth , even though he and Callie were broken up at the time . Things go from bad to worse when George and Alex fight , and Walter gets injured in the process . Meredith assists Mark on a sex - change procedure as he keeps trying to get her to sleep with him , but complications arise when it 's discovered that the patient has breast cancer . Bailey confronts Cristina after realizing that she was the one to erase Bailey 's name off the surgery board , not Burke , and finally regains confidence in her abilities as a surgeon . As a result , Bailey takes revenge on Cristina by assigning her to the case of a child who swallowed 21 Monopoly pieces , and keeps her off surgeries until she admits why she took Bailey 's name off the board . Izzie has to have a counselling session with Sydney , the perky resident who annoyed the interns when Bailey was on maternity leave . 44 8 `` Staring at the Sun '' Jeff Melman Gabrielle Stanton & Harry Werksman , Jr . November 16 , 2006 ( 2006 - 11 - 16 ) 20.92 Harold O'Malley is admitted to Seattle Grace Hospital , and George 's brothers come along and become friendly with Callie . George , however , does not want Callie to socialize with his family , so he assures her that their relationship is over , with no chances of reconciliation . Meredith tries to take things slow with Derek and refuses to have sex with him , while he tries to have a civilized relationship with his now ex-wife , Addison . Derek and Addison confront Webber when they believe he may be suffering from depression . Alex and Izzie help Mark treat a man after he received pectoral implants , and following on from advice from the patient , Alex kisses Izzie after he realizes that he still has feelings for her which are not returned . George and Bailey are on the verge of discovering Burke 's condition . Meredith and Bailey treat a five - year old girl , who was accidentally run over by her nanny . 45 9 `` From a Whisper to a Scream '' Julie Anne Robinson Kip Koenig November 23 , 2006 ( 2006 - 11 - 23 ) 18.51 A traumatic car accident which fills the emergency room has everyone challenged emotionally . George calls Erica Hahn from Seattle Presbyterian Hospital to perform heart surgery on his father after he finds out about Burke 's condition . George 's parents task Izzie with finding out why George had them change surgeon , but this only leads to George snapping at Izzie . Meredith figures out that Burke needs Cristina to operate . Cristina has a crisis of conscience about her deceptive teamwork with Burke , and turns to Webber . Burke is shocked to see that Webber is considering replacing him with Dr. Hahn as the Chief of Cardiothoracic Surgery at Seattle Grace Hospital , but eventually learns that Webber 's plan was to make him Chief after his retirement . However , after Cristina confesses about his hand tremor , Webber is forced to warn him about the severe consequences he will have to face . Callie attempts to rebuild her relationship with George . Addison , Mark , and Alex work together on a pregnant woman , and Alex and Addison realize they may have feelings for each other . 46 10 `` Do n't Stand So Close to Me '' Seith Mann Carolina Paiz November 30 , 2006 ( 2006 - 11 - 30 ) 24.01 Recent events strain Burke and Cristina 's relationship and they both realize that the chances of reconciliation are lowering . Meredith 's half - sister , Molly , goes into labor and is admitted to Seattle Grace Hospital under the care of Addison . Meredith does not want to see or talk to Susan , her stepmother , and tells her that she is not family and their relationship should go no further . Harold attempts to discover the cause of George 's anger . Derek and Mark must work together when two conjoined brothers seek medical help for separation . However , the patients could become paralyzed or die following the procedure , and Derek is unsure on whether to continue until he gets a pep talk from Bailey . Webber demands that Burke has surgery again to fix his hand . Meredith has to tell her mother that Webber will not keep seeing her and she relives the night that he left her for good twenty years ago . Meredith is devastated when her mother says that she should never have had a daughter as she believes that is the reason that Webber had left her . Cristina faces the wrath of Bailey and the other interns following her part in Burke 's scheme . 47 11 `` Six Days ( Part 1 ) '' Greg Yaitanes Krista Vernoff January 11 , 2007 ( 2007 - 01 - 11 ) 23.03 After a successful heart surgery performed by Dr. Hahn , George 's father undergoes surgery to remove the tumor that has spread through his body . Webber and Bailey perform the surgery and do a certain procedure according to Mr. O'Malley's wishes , in spite of their medical opinion . Thatcher Grey visits Seattle Grace Hospital to stay by the side of his daughter Molly , who has just given birth to a girl . Meredith has trouble connecting to him and hesitates in talking to him all day long . Alex works with Addison when the baby needs an emergency surgery , and afterwards they nearly kiss . Derek has trouble sleeping due to Meredith 's disturbing snoring as she learns that he had been sleeping on the couch for days . A young girl is admitted to the hospital , suffering from a severe bone condition that is thought to be inoperable . Despite Derek 's neurological advice , Callie believes that a certain expensive surgery might be live - saving . Izzie begs to scrub in on a surgery , but Bailey refuses to let her do so until she cashes in her check . 48 12 `` Six Days ( Part 2 ) '' Greg Yaitanes Krista Vernoff January 18 , 2007 ( 2007 - 01 - 18 ) 21.94 George learns about the procedure that Webber and Bailey performed on his father which ultimately leads to a worsening of his condition . The O'Malley family now have to face a difficult decision regarding Harold 's inability to breathe on his own . They must take him off life support . Meredith finally talks to her father and realizes that her snoring is one of the many things they have in common , despite her inability to admit it . Meredith and Derek continue to argue over her snoring , but the situation is resolved following Meredith 's talk with her dad . There 's tension between Alex and Addison that eventually leads to them kissing . Addison confesses to Callie that she got pregnant with Mark 's son but aborted him after realizing that Mark could never be a good father . Burke lets Cristina know about the status of his condition , but the pair still refuse to talk to each other . Izzie is barred from the girl 's surgery after Bailey finds out that she paid for the operation , but she ultimately wins her respect after realizing that without the money the girl could have never been saved . The girl begins a new life as a normal child thanks to Izzie 's generous donation . 49 13 `` Great Expectations '' Michael Grossman Eric Buchman January 25 , 2007 ( 2007 - 01 - 25 ) 21.50 After Webber announces his retirement , rumors begin to circulate on his departure and successor . Mark is determined to leave Seattle for good , and irritates Meredith and Alex by making them tend to a patient who will need constant attention but Meredith accidentally gives Mark incentive to stay after letting him know of the open Chief position . Derek is angry at Meredith for causing Mark to remain in Seattle , but soon realizes that she is not the reason he is really angry . The attending physicians at Seattle Grace Hospital fight to get Webber 's attention , but he expresses his disappointment in their conduct . He also forces Bailey to get signatures from all the attendings so she can create a free medical clinic , before confessing to her that he thinks she will be Chief one day . Bailey secures the signatures , but has no funding until Izzie offers to spend her entire 8.7 million dollar inheritance on the project . Addison , Izzie , and George treat a patient with a cervical tumor , and Izzie gets worried about George due to his dad having recently died from cancer . Things get more complicated when the patient 's Puritan parents arrive . Addison is avoiding Alex following their kiss . Callie and Cristina treat a marathon runner who collapsed after a blackout . George , devastated after his father 's death , reunites with Callie and uses sex to overcome his grief , before eventually proposing to her . Cristina and Burke still do n't speak to each other , but she eventually breaks , and Burke ends up proposing to her . Webber endeavors to reunite with his wife , Adele , and decides to retire , only to come home and find she 's with another man . 50 14 `` Wishin ' and Hopin ' '' Julie Anne Robinson Tony Phelan & Joan Rater February 1 , 2007 ( 2007 - 02 - 01 ) 24.18 The race for the Chief 's position is on , and the attending physicians , Derek , Burke , Addison , and Mark , compete for Webber 's affections by trying to help out everywhere possible . The Denny Duquette Memorial Clinic is open for business , but no one shows up . Izzie is disappointed in what she invested Denny 's legacy in , and she and Alex team up to steal patients from the emergency room . Callie and George get back from Las Vegas , announcing their marriage , much to everyone 's disbelief . Izzie is not supportive of their marriage and tries to get George to realize the mistake he has made . George and Webber treat a patient with cancer , but her blood has a neurotoxin in it that causes all the staff around her to fall ill . The staff have to operate on her in hazmat suits , and later in small bursts to complete her surgery . Cristina does n't give Burke an answer to his proposal , but after watching him risk his life during the surgery , she agrees to marry him . Meanwhile , Meredith 's Alzheimer 's - stricken mother , Ellis Grey , experiences a change in her medical condition by becoming lucid for the day . She is disappointed in the mediocrity her daughter has fallen into and begins to despise Derek , blaming him for what happened to the Meredith that used to be `` a force of nature '' . Ellis has to have heart surgery and , despite her mother 's wishes , Meredith schedules the upcoming surgery . Webber talks to Ellis and realizes that she is still in love with him , but she loses her memory after their talk ends , before Meredith has the chance to tell her how she really feels . 51 15 `` Walk on Water '' Rob Corn Shonda Rhimes February 8 , 2007 ( 2007 - 02 - 08 ) 25.20 A mass trauma situation , which turns out to be a ferryboat accident , challenges the whole staff of Seattle Grace Hospital . Webber finds difficulty in coping with his separation from his wife and dyes his hair `` for the ladies '' , which becomes an internal joke between Mark , Burke , and Derek . Cristina tries to tell Meredith about her upcoming marriage , but does n't have the strength to . George promises to find a woman 's son , who has been separated from her at the accident . The woman refuses to go into surgery until she is assured that her son is alive . Izzie has to take care of a man who got stuck between two cars on the ferry , but nobody helps her due to the large number of injured people . Alex rescues a pregnant woman with severe wounds on her face , and promises to take care of her . Meredith looks after a girl who has been separated from her mother after the accident and can not communicate , but while helping a patient , he accidentally pushes Meredith , and she falls into the water , with nobody but the silent little girl as a witness . 52 16 `` Drowning on Dry Land '' Rob Corn Shonda Rhimes February 15 , 2007 ( 2007 - 02 - 15 ) 25.76 Meredith struggles to stay afloat and eventually begins drowning , but nobody is around to notice . Derek finds her coat on a man she had helped , and starts looking for her and , much to his shock , the little girl Meredith took care of indicates that she is in the water . Derek saves her , but she is almost dead , due to hypothermia . The little girl gets reunited with her mother . Izzie has to perform brain surgery on a man stuck between cars , as he begins to experience seizures . She drills holes into his head , perforates his skull and ultimately saves his life before he is rescued and transferred to Seattle Grace Hospital ; this leads to Webber allowing her back into surgeries . George lies to the woman whose son he had been looking for , in order to get her to surgery , and eventually finds Callie operating on the son . Alex is unsuccessful in searching for the pregnant Jane Doe 's family as she undergoes surgery , and at the same time he also has to deal with the families of the victims . The interns find out about Meredith 's situation and express their hopelessness . She wakes up in what appears to be limbo and meets her deceased acquaintances . 53 17 `` Some Kind of Miracle '' Adam Arkin Shonda Rhimes & Marti Noxon February 22 , 2007 ( 2007 - 02 - 22 ) 27.39 Webber struggles to keep Meredith alive , whose body does not seem to respond to treatment , much to Derek 's devastation . Meanwhile , a metaphor shows Meredith in what she believes is limbo , displaying her interacting with deceased acquaintances whose decision would influence her chances of survival . Cristina remedies her grief for Meredith by leaving the hospital and going shopping , while Alex continues to bond with the pregnant Jane Doe who remains unclaimed , due to her inability to remember anything . Derek is aware that Meredith is a good swimmer and blames Ellis Grey for her daughter 's depression . Ellis goes into cardiac arrest and meets Meredith in the alternate universe , and declares her love and respect for her , telling her to wake up . She does so , and sees everyone who loves her by her side . Cristina lets her know about her engagement to Burke . Addison tells Mark that if he wants to reunite with her , he must go celibate for 60 days . 54 18 `` Scars and Souvenirs '' James Frawley Debora Cahn March 15 , 2007 ( 2007 - 03 - 15 ) 22.68 The race between the attending physicians for the Chief of Surgery position heats up after a new competitor enters the fray . They soon realize that the new surgeon , Colin Marlow , was Cristina 's professor in medical school and they used to have a long - term relationship . When Burke finds out about it he realizes that his and Cristina 's relationship is on the rocks . George finds out that Callie 's family is rich , but she had previously hidden the fact in order to find out whether George loves her for who she really is , which eventually leads to an argument toward the pair . Webber , Callie , and Izzie treat a war veteran with a bullet in his back . Derek treats his former colleague from New York , but they argue over the best care as Derek wants to push a risky surgery , and his colleague does n't want any more surgeries . Alex continues to work with Jane Doe , whose memory has n't come back , and later he moves into George 's old room . Meredith and Derek have dinner with her father and stepmother . Meredith starts to connect with Susan , but her relationship with Thatcher seems to be irreparable . Izzie wakes up , realizing that she slept with George while they were both drunk . 55 19 `` My Favorite Mistake '' Tamra Davis Chris Van Dusen March 22 , 2007 ( 2007 - 03 - 22 ) 22.30 In the aftermath of Izzie 's affair with George , he does n't seem to remember anything , and Izzie does her best to avoid Callie , but she becomes nervous when she has to help Callie and George treat a patient with FOP . Callie lets George know that they will be having dinner with her father , but George does not make a good impression , being hungover after last night 's events . Alex helps Jane Doe choose what her face will look like after Mark performs reconstructive surgery on her . He also gives her a new perspective on how the world will see her from then on . The hospital board begins interviewing the candidates for the Chief 's position , and Colin intimidates everyone with his ten - year plan . However , after taking advice from Bailey , Mark seems to have convinced the board that he is appropriate for the job , despite continuous efforts from Derek , Burke , and Addison , whose careers in the hospital outlast his . Cristina looks for a way to save a man 's foot when he makes it clear that he does n't want it amputated . Izzie seeks advice from Addison about her affair , confessing that sleeping with George felt right , despite him being married . Mark takes Meredith as his intern for the day in order to impress Webber , something that Derek does n't approve of , feeling that Mark has become manipulative . 56 20 `` Time After Time '' Christopher Misiano Stacy McKee April 19 , 2007 ( 2007 - 04 - 19 ) 21.12 When Izzie 's daughter , Hannah Klein , is brought to the hospital for leukemia treatment , her adoptive parents come searching for Izzie , and ask her to donate her bone marrow in support . She is saddened to learn that her daughter does not want to see her , but is surprised to see how alike they are . George helps Izzie out , but forgets about a coffee break with Callie . Mark offers to be Webber 's wingman , to get him back into dating . Derek comes to the conclusion that his relationship with Meredith is the only thing standing in his way to become the Chief of Surgery . Colin continues to intrude on Burke and Cristina 's lives with an impending surgery he will perform . He tries to convince Cristina to break up with Burke , due to their targets being completely different . After realizing that Cristina has changed , Colin drops out of the race for Chief and leaves the hospital . Meredith starts to grow closer to her stepmother , Susan , but they experience a blip when Meredith snaps at her for her constant mothering . A couple arrives at Seattle Grace Hospital to see Ava , whom they initially believe to be their daughter , but the mother rejects Ava without telling her . They leave Alex to inform Ava , causing Ava to lash out . 57 21 `` Desire '' Tom Verica Mark Wilding April 26 , 2007 ( 2007 - 04 - 26 ) 20.08 The interns of Seattle Grace Hospital start to use every free minute to study for their upcoming exam which will determine their entire residency in the surgical field . Cristina is jealous of George who can study with Callie , whose learning cards have become legendary . After the realization that George and Izzie might have feelings for each other , Callie decides to give the cards to Cristina . The attending physicians vie for the Chief position by tending to the chairman of the hospital board , after he is admitted as a patient . They soon learn that there is a fish in his urinary tract and learn that his wife has been aware of his affair with his secretary . She eventually resigns and leaves him , and his wife asks for divorce . In the clinic , Izzie treats a patient with a recurring cold , which turns out to be a symptom of something worse . Webber starts to question his decision to retire as he believes that there is a lot more he can do as a surgeon and can not be done with his career in his early fifties . Cristina gets annoyed at Burke as he tries pressuring her into choosing a flavor for their wedding cake while she is trying to study . Addison and Alex deliver Ava 's baby , through a cesarian - section , before sleeping together , but afterwards Alex tells her to make sure that it never happens again . Derek starts to question his relationship with Meredith , feeling that he is the only one putting an effort for it to work out . George tells Izzie that he is considering transferring to a different hospital . 58 59 22 23 `` The Other Side of This Life '' Michael Grossman Shonda Rhimes May 3 , 2007 ( 2007 - 05 - 03 ) 21.23 After things become too complicated in Seattle , Addison travels to Los Angeles to reunite with her old friends from Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons . Much to her best friend 's shock , the real reason for her visit is in order to get pregnant but she is devastated to learn that she can not . Whilst there , Addison assists her friend in treating a surrogate mother , who had sex with three different men who all claim that the baby is theirs . Cristina finds difficulty in planning her wedding under the constant watch of her and Burke 's mother , who are determined to create an extravagant wedding , despite her wishes of having a small ceremony . Callie is surprised to be invited to be Cristina 's bridesmaid . Susan is admitted to the hospital , bringing Thatcher with her , but he suspects that she might be trying to bring Thatcher and Meredith together by faking hiccups . Mark talks to Derek and expresses his disappointment in not working things out with Addison , who he had truly fallen in love with . Burke is surprised when his mother tells him that he 's making a mistake marrying Cristina , but she reassures him that she supports his decision . George is determined to transfer to Mercy West , despite Izzie 's continuous begging . Addison becomes the temporary obstetrician - gynecologist at the Oceanside Wellness Center in Los Angeles and deals with the aftermath of the discovery that she can not have children . She is comforted by Pete Wilder who flirts with and eventually kisses her . The doctors offer her a position , but she denies it after realizing that Seattle is where her life is . The Los Angeles team also continue to treat a man with no sex drive , which infuriates his wife , who has a high one . After Susan returns to the hospital with chest pain , she is rushed into emergency surgery and ultimately dies . Thatcher is devastated by the news and blames Meredith for her death , and slaps her . George and Burke confide in each other about their relationship problems , and Burke 's intensify after an argument with his mother . Izzie finds difficulty in accepting that George is going to transfer because of her , but realizes that she ca n't deny her feelings towards him , which leads to them kissing . Meanwhile , Derek must perform surgery on Ava and she gets her hopes high after realizing that she might get her memory back . 60 24 `` Testing 1 - 2 - 3 '' Christopher Misiano Allan Heinberg May 10 , 2007 ( 2007 - 05 - 10 ) 19.58 The five interns finally have to face one of the biggest test of their careers , which will influence the rest of their lives as surgeons . Meredith is still feeling guilty about her stepmother 's death , but feels confident that she will pass the exam , despite warnings from both Cristina and Richard . However , after her father , Thatcher , causes a scene at the hospital , Meredith finds herself unable to focus and does n't write anything on the exam paper . Meanwhile , George gets accepted in the Mercy West Hospital surgical residency program and has to face a decision which will change his relationship with Izzie forever . Callie 's suspicions of her husband 's unfaithfulness grow , and is thrilled about George 's transfer to a different hospital . Alex learns that Ava 's memory has come back , but he becomes infuriated with her after learning that she is not willing to let her family know where she is . Bailey realizes that Callie 's chances of becoming Chief Resident have increased considerably , while Burke can not get Cristina to talk to him about their upcoming wedding . The attending physicians work with three injured mountain climbers who left their friend behind in order to save their own lives . Derek continues to feel pushed out by Meredith , and at Burke 's stag party he flirts with another woman . Joe and his boyfriend consider adopting a baby , but things go bad for them when their surrogate mother collapses . Addison makes the shocking discovery that Adele , Webber 's wife , is pregnant . Webber eventually bumps into her , but Adele hides in the ladies ' bathroom , and when he finally enters he finds her collapsed on the floor . 61 25 `` Did n't We Almost Have It All ? '' Rob Corn Tony Phelan & Joan Rater May 17 , 2007 ( 2007 - 05 - 17 ) 22.57 The mountain climbers lie about the axe in their friend 's head , telling Derek that it accidentally got there . During surgery , he and George discover that it was deliberately put there , and one of the climbers admits that he was trying to `` put him out of his misery '' . Adele is stabilized following her collapse , but she soon suffers a miscarriage . Webber learns Adele was actually pregnant with his son , not someone she had one night stand with . Bailey is disappointed to see that Callie is the new Chief Resident and begins to question her abilities as a surgeon . Callie tells George she wants a baby . Webber chooses Derek as Chief of Surgery , but he refuses , telling Webber that he should continue . Ava 's husband shows up at the hospital to find her , but when he 's gone , Ava confesses to Alex that she wants to be with him , but he turns her down . Cristina and Burke 's wedding day arrives , but Cristina wo n't stay out of the hospital . However , Cristina 's nervousness results in Burke realizing that he does not love the real Cristina , and leaves her . Meredith and Derek are uncertain about their future . George fails his internship exam .