Johanna Mason is the female tribute from District 7 . She won the 71st Hunger Games by pretending she was a weakling and a coward , so no one regarded her as a threat , but when only a few tributes remained , she revealed herself to be a vicious killer . Haymitch implies that she may have been prostituted by President Snow , as Finnick was , but it is also implied that she refused to be prostituted , causing the Capitol to kill her family and friends . She later states `` What ? He ( Snow ) ca n't hurt me . There is no one left I love . '' Sarcastic and rebellious , Johanna 's first meeting with Katniss involves her stripping naked out of her tree costume in order to make Katniss uncomfortable . She openly defies and defames the Capitol at every opportunity , but the Capitol usually ignores her , since they had already eliminated those she loved . Johanna teams up with Katniss , Peeta , and Finnick in the Quarter Quell , bringing Beetee and Wiress with her . Johanna takes part in the committee to keep Katniss and Peeta alive and helps by protecting Katniss throughout the Games . Near the end of Catching Fire she removes the tracker in Katniss ' arm by cutting it out with a knife . Johanna is captured by the Capitol at the end of Catching Fire . In the third book , she is rescued , along with Peeta and Annie , and brought to District 13 where she fights with rebel forces and improves her friendship with Katniss . She is to fight in the Capitol with Katniss ( although not as a sharpshooter -- being from an area where lumber is the main export , her main weapon is the axe ) but during training in District 13 she panics when the training arena is deliberately flooded , as she has developed a fear of water as a result of her Capitol torture ( being soaked in water and given electric shocks ) . Because she and Katniss refuse to be held in the District 13 hospital to treat their supposed mental illnesses , they convince the officials of District 13 to let them room together . Johanna is part of the committee that votes whether to hold one last Hunger Games using the Capitol 's children : she votes yes .