Sackville - West worked tirelessly to lift up Woolf 's self - esteem , encouraging her not to view herself as a quasi-reclusive inclined to sickness who should hide herself away from the world , but rather offered praise for her liveliness and sense of wit , her health , her intelligence and achievements as a writer . Sackville - West led Woolf to reappraise herself , developing a more positive self - image , and the feeling that her writings were the products of her strengths rather than her weakness . Starting at the age of 15 , Woolf had believed the diagnosis by her father and his doctor that reading and writing were deleterious to her nervous condition , requiring a regime of physical labour such as gardening to prevent a total nervous collapse . This led Woolf to spend much time obsessively engaging in such physical labour . Sackville - West was the first to argue to Woolf she had been misdiagnosed , and that it was far better to engage in reading and writing to calm her nerves -- advice that was taken . Under the influence of Sackville - West , Woolf learned to deal with her nervous ailments by switching between various forms of intellectual activities such as reading , writing and book reviews , instead of spending her time in physical activities that sapped her strength and worsened her nerves . Sackville - West chose the financially struggling Hogarth Press as her publisher in order to assist the Woolfs financially . Seducers in Ecuador , the first of the novels by Sackville - West published by Hogarth , was not a success , selling only 1500 copies in its first year , but the next Sackville - West novel they published , The Edwardians , was a bestseller that sold 30,000 copies in its first six months . Sackville - West 's novels , though not typical of the Hogarth Press , saved Hogarth , taking them from the red into the black . However , Woolf was not always appreciative of the fact that it was Sackville - West 's books that kept the Hogarth Press profitable , writing dismissively in 1933 of her `` servant girl '' novels . The financial security allowed by the good sales of Sackville - West 's novels in turn allowed Woolf to engage in more experimental work , such as The Waves , as Woolf had to be cautious when she depended upon Hogarth entirely for her income .