Willem Kmetsch ( ヴィレム ・ クメシュ , Viremu Kumeshu ) Voiced by : Ryohei Arai ( Japanese ) ; Micah Solusod ( English ) Willem is the main protagonist and only `` alive '' emnetwiht ( 人間 族 ( エムネトワイト ) , ' human ' ; from Anglo - Saxon ) being in a world where humans have been driven to extinction by creations they call `` Beasts '' . Known as the Black Agate Swordmaster , he is later found under a frozen lake after being cursed to petrifaction for five hundred years by the beast Eboncandle . He continues his fight against the Beasts , this time as the adviser to the `` Fairies , '' since his body is too damaged to wield a Weapon after his battle with Eboncandle . As an active fighter he once wielded Percival , a mass produced version of the Dug Weapons ( once called Carillons ) . Chtholly Nota Seniorious ( クトリ ・ ノタ ・ セニオリス , Kutori Nota Seniorisu ) Voiced by : Azusa Tadokoro ( Japanese ) ; Amber Lee Connors ( English ) Chtholly is one of the Leprechauns ( 黄金 妖精 ( レプラカーン ) , ' fairy ' ) who can use Weapons . She inherited the Weapon Seniorious , which once belonged to Lillia , a brave from Willem 's past . She develops feelings for Willem when she meets him for the first time . Ithea Myse Valgulious ( アイセア ・ マイゼ ・ ヴァルガリス , Aisea Maize Varugarisu ) Voiced by : Machico ( Japanese ) ; Brittney Karbowski ( English ) Ithea is a Leprechaun that has her hair styled like cat ears . She has a happy - go - lucky personalty , and often jokes that Willem only likes girls of her age ; but she hides her true identity . She is the wielder of the Dug Weapon called Valgulious . Nephren Ruq Insania ( ネフレン ・ ルク ・ インサニア , Nefuren Ruku Insania ) Voiced by : Akari Uehara ( Japanese ) ; Alexis Tipton ( English ) Nephren is a Leprechaun rarely showing emotions . She cares for Willem and helps him a lot but often sticks to him for some unknown reason . She loves flowers . She is the wielder of the Dug Weapon called Insania . Rhantolk Ytri Historia ( ラーントルク ・ イツリ ・ ヒストリア , Rāntoruku Itsuri Hisutoria ) Voiced by : Kazusa Aranami ( Japanese ) ; Leah Clark ( English ) A Leprechaun wielding the Dug Weapon Historia . She loves to read poems and speaks in a poetic tone . Nopht Keh Desperatio ( ノフト ・ ケー ・ デスペ ラティオ , Nofuto Kē Desuperatio ) Voiced by : Inori Minase ( Japanese ) ; Felecia Angelle ( English ) A Leprechaun wielding the Dug Weapon Desperatio . She loves meat , and shows brutality when killing Beasts . Tiat Siba Ignareo ( ティアット ・ シバ ・ イグナレオ , Tiatto Shiba Igunareo ) Voiced by : Tomomi Mizuma ( Japanese ) ; Lara Woodhull ( English ) A young , battle - ready Leprechaun , but never paired with a Dug Weapon . She is a fan of romantic movies . Pannibal Nox Katena ( パニバル ・ ノク ・ カテナ , Panibaru Noku Katena ) Voiced by : Yurika Kubo ( Japanese ) ; Sarah Wiedenheft ( English ) A Leprechaun , always ready for a fight . She attacked Willem while he is on his way to the warehouse to report for duty with a wooden sword . Lakhesh Nyx Seniorious ( ラキシュ ・ ニクス ・ セニオリス , Rakishu Nikusu Seniorisu ) Voiced by : Manaka Ishimi ( Japanese ) ; Jill Harris ( English ) A clumsy and shy Leprechaun kid who is often seen with Tiat , Collon , and Pannibal . Collon Rin Purgatorio ( コロン ・ リン ・ プルガトリオ , Koron Rin Purugatorio ) Voiced by : Hina Kino ( Japanese ) ; Kristi Rothrock ( English ) An energetic Leprechaun who always speaks with exclamations . Almita ( アルミタ , Arumita ) Voiced by : Akane Kohinata ( Japanese ) ; Jad Saxton ( English ) A Leprechaun who fell in a ravine but remained indifferent to her injuries , which made Willem question his true mission in the Warehouse and Facility . Nygglatho ( ナイグラート , Naigurāto ) Voiced by : Kikuko Inoue ( Japanese ) ; Jamie Marchi ( English ) A Troll ( 喰人 鬼 ( トロール ) ' man - eating demon ' ) , she lusts after Willem 's flesh , but represses it . In the same way that Willem represents the military , she represents the Guild in securing the Facility . She knows Willem well because she led the expedition that found him in a petrified state . Grick Graycrack ( グリック ・ グレイ クラック , Gurikku Gureikurakku ) Voiced by : Shigeru Chiba ( Japanese ) ; Bryan Massey ( English ) A goblin ( 緑 鬼 族 ( ボーグル ) ' green demon ' ) who works as a salvager for artifacts on The Surface ( the land below the sky islands where the Beasts are ) , a risky job . He wants Willem to join the Army . He was with Rhan and Nopht on the surface on an artifact recovery mission . Limeskin ( ライム スキン , Raimusukin ) Voiced by : Jūrōta Kosugi ( Japanese ) ; Christopher R. Sabat ( English ) A Reptilian ( 爬虫 種 ( レプトレイス ) ) officer . Willem refers to him as `` The Lizard . '' Almaria Duffner ( アルマリア ・ デュフナー , Arumaria Dyufunā ) Voiced by : Satomi Satō ( Japanese ) ; Bryn Apprill ( English ) Willem 's last mention before he became petrified , probably one of the children he cared for . Phyracorlybia Dorio ( フィラ コル リビア ・ ドリオ , Firakoruribia Dorio ) Voiced by : Honoka Inoue ( Japanese ) ; Tia Ballard ( English ) She is the Lycanthrope ( 狼 徴 人 ( リュカントロポス ) ) daughter of the mayor of the sky island city named Corna di Luce who asks Limeskin , who , in turn , asks Willem , to help against a group of activists , but due to his connections with the military , they can not intervene in political matters , and since Willem is `` busy with babysitting . '' Lillia Asplay ( リーリァ ・ アスプレイ , Rīria Asupurei ) Voiced by : Rina Satō ( Japanese ) ; Giovannie Cruz ( English ) A high ranking brave from Willem 's past who once wielded Seniorious . Souwong Kandel ( スウォン ・ カンデル , Suwon Kanderu ) Voiced by : Mugihito ( Japanese ) ; Charlie Campbell ( Older ) , Ryan Reynolds ( younger ) ( English ) Willem 's former partner from 500 years ago . He died after a suicide attack and became an barrowwiht ( 喪 死者 ( ) ) , enabling Willem to disable a Poteau ( 地 神 ( ポトー ) , ' earthly deity ' ) named Eboncandle ( 黒 燭 公 ( イー ボン キャンドル ) ) . Before his death he cursed himself , altering his life force in the process , stripping him of his humanity but gifting him with immortality . In this new state he will not die of injury or age . He has a deep fascination over white capes , naming him Great Sage by Eboncandle and Willem . Souwong , later working together with the powerful beast Eboncandle , created the Sky Archipelago of floating islands over 500 years ago to protect the remaining survivors from the beasts lurking on The Surface . Elq Hrqstn ( エルク ・ ハルクステン , Eruku Harukusuten ) Voiced by : Hikari Okada ( Japanese ) ; Monica Rial ( English ) She is Visitor ( 星 神 ( ヴィジトルス ) , ' star deity ' ) who are said to have created the world , but has the appearance of a young girl .