Free jazz is an approach to jazz music that was first developed in the 1950s and 1960s . Though the music produced by free jazz composers varied widely , the common feature was a dissatisfaction with the limitations of bebop , hard bop , and modal jazz , which had developed in the 1940s and 1950s . Each in their own way , free jazz musicians attempted to alter , extend , or break down the conventions of jazz , often by discarding hitherto invariable features of jazz , such as fixed chord changes or tempos . While usually considered experimental and avant - garde , free jazz has also oppositely been conceived as an attempt to return jazz to its `` primitive '' , often religious roots , and emphasis on collective improvisation . Free jazz is strongly associated with the 1950s innovations of Ornette Coleman and Cecil Taylor and the later works of saxophonist John Coltrane . Other important pioneers included Charles Mingus , Eric Dolphy , Albert Ayler , Archie Shepp , Joe Maneri and Sun Ra . Although today `` free jazz '' is the generally used term , many other terms were used to describe the loosely defined movement , including `` avant - garde '' , `` energy music '' and `` The New Thing '' . During its early and mid-60s heyday , much free jazz was released by established labels such as Prestige , Blue Note and Impulse , as well as independents such as ESP Disk and BYG Actuel . Free improvisation or free music is improvised music without any rules beyond the logic or inclination of the musician ( s ) involved . The term can refer to both a technique ( employed by any musician in any genre ) and as a recognizable genre in its own right . Free improvisation , as a genre of music , developed in the U.S. and Europe in the mid to late 1960s , largely as an outgrowth of free jazz and modern classical musics . None of its primary exponents can be said to be famous within mainstream ; however , in experimental circles , a number of free musicians are well known , including saxophonists Evan Parker , Anthony Braxton , Peter Brötzmann and John Zorn , drummer Christian Lillinger , trombonist George Lewis , guitarists Derek Bailey , Henry Kaiser and Fred Frith and the improvising groups The Art Ensemble of Chicago and AMM .