The Beaver Island archipelago in Charlevoix County , Michigan , includes Beaver Island , Garden Island , Grape Island , Gull Island , Hat Island , High Island , Hog Island , Horseshoe Island , Little Island , Pismire Island , Shoe Island , Squaw Island , Trout Island , and Whiskey Island . The Fox Islands in Leelanau County , Michigan , consist of North Fox Island and South Fox Island . The Manitou Islands , North Manitou Island and South Manitou Island , are in Leelanau County , Michigan . Islands within Grand Traverse Bay include Bassett Island , Bellow Island , and Marion Island . Islands south of the Garden Peninsula in Delta County , Michigan include Gravelly Island , Gull Island , Little Gull Island , Little Summer Island , Poverty Island , Rocky Island , St. Martin Island , and Summer Island . Islands in Big Bay de Noc in Delta County , Michigan include Round Island , Saint Vital Island , and Snake Island . Islands in Little Bay de Noc in Delta County , Michigan include Butlers Island and Sand Island . Wilderness State Park in Emmet County , Michigan contains Temperance Island and Waugoshance Island . Epoufette Island , Gravel Island , Little Hog Island , and Naubinway Island are located in Mackinac County , Michigan , in the area of Epoufette , Michigan and Naubinway , Michigan . Green Island and St. Helena Island are in the vicinity of the Mackinac Bridge , in Mackinac County , Michigan . Islands surrounding the Door Peninsula in Wisconsin include Chambers Island , Fish Island , Gravel Island , Spider Island , Horseshoe Island , the Sister Islands , Detroit Island , Green Island , Hog Island , Pilot Island , Plum Island , Rock Island , the Strawberry Islands and Washington Island . The northern half of the peninsula is technically an island itself , due to the Sturgeon Bay Ship Canal . Northerly Island is a 91 - acre ( 37 ha ) man - made island in Chicago . It is the home of the Adler Planetarium , the former site of Meigs Field , and the current site of the temporary concert venue Charter One Pavilion each summer . Other islands included Fisherman Island in Charlevoix County , Michigan and Ile aux Galets in Emmet County , Michigan . Plum Island ( Wisconsin ) is an island at the western shore of Lake Michigan in the southern part of the town of Washington in Door County , Wisconsin .