Off License : Malt Beverage License Off - Sale , Malt Beverage License under 50 % malt beverage sales : In order to sell beer in a grocery store , a person must be at least eighteen years of age . Off - Sale , Malt Beverage License over 50 % malt beverage sales : In order to sell , stock or handle sealed beer in a grocery store a person must be at least twenty - one years of age . ( If the sale of alcoholic beverages constitutes more than fifty percent of the gross business transacted by the establishment ) On / Off - Sale : Malt Beverage License On / Off - Sale , Malt Beverage License - 50 % Alcohol Sales : The sale of malt beverages constitutes less than fifty percent of the gross business transacted by that establishment , an employee who is 18 years of age or older may sell , serve or dispense malt beverages as long as the licensee or an employee who is at least 21 years of age is on the premise . No one under the age of 21 may tend bar or draw or mix alcoholic beverages . On / Off Sale , Malt Beverage License over 50 % Alcohol Sales : If the gross business from the sale of malt beverages is over 50 % , an employee selling the malt beverages must be at least 21 years of age . On - Sale : Liquor License On - Sale Liquor License under 50 % Alcohol Sales : If less than 50 % of the gross business is from the sale of alcohol , an employee age 18 or older may sell , serve or dispense alcoholic beverages as long as the licensee or an employee over the age of 21 is on the premise . No one under the age of 21 may tend bar or draw or mix alcoholic beverages . On - Sale Liquor License over 50 % Alcohol Sales : If the gross business from the sale of alcohol is over 50 % , an employee selling the alcohol must be at least 21 years of age . Package Liquor License Package Liquor License under 50 % Alcohol Sales : If less than 50 % of the gross business is from the sale of alcohol , an employee age 18 or older may sell alcoholic beverages . Package Liquor License over 50 % Alcohol Sales : Sales of alcoholic beverages may only be made by a person who is at least 21 years of age . On - Off Sale : Wine License On - Off Sale Wine License under 50 % Alcohol Sales : If less than 50 % of the gross business is from the sale of wine , an employee age 18 or older may sell , serve or dispense the wine as long as the licensee or an employee over the age of 21 is on the premise . No one under the age of 21 may tend bar or draw or mix alcoholic beverages . On / Off - Sale Wine License over 50 % Alcohol Sales : If gross business from the sale of wine is over 50 % , an employee selling the wine must be at least 21 years of age .