18 March Lockheed F - 104C Starfighter , 56 - 0917 , of the 436th Tactical Fighter Squadron , 479th Tactical Fighter Wing based at George Air Force Base , California . This aircraft disappeared shortly after takeoff approximately 10 miles north of Kindley AFB , Bermuda . No trace of the aircraft or pilot 1st Lt. Morris Ballard Larsen was found despite a 6 day air and sea search . The cause of the accident remains undetermined . This accident occurred during a planned deployment from George AFB to Moron AB , Spain , with refueling stop at Bermuda . A squadron of eighteen F - 104C aircraft was scheduled to leave Kindley AFB , Bermuda for Moron AB , Spain at 0630 hours . The first flight of 6 aircraft , including Lt. Larson , took off with numbers 1 thru 4 in left echelon and numbers 5 and 6 in element 500 ft. behind . Lt. Larson was number 4 . All members of the flight were monitoring channel 17 , radar departure frequency , and checked in on that freq . prior to takeoff . Take - off in elements appeared normal except Lt. Larson lagged behind perceptibly and after becoming airborne assumed a steep climb attitude and disappeared into the overcast before the element leader . Lt. Larson radioed that his landing gear had not fully retracted after takeoff and that he had slowed down and recycled the gear . During this time he separated from his element leader . Shortly later Lt. Larson radioed that his gear was up . Just after this transmission all radio and radar contact was lost with Lt. Larson . Repeated attempts to contact Lt. Larson on guard and radar departure channels were unsuccessful . Element lead immediately requested Air Sea Rescue and a helicopter dispatched to the last radar contact of approximately 10 miles north of Kindley AFB . A search of the area failed to find any evidence of a crash or survivor . Weather in the vicinity of last radar contact was 300 ft and 1 mile in rain showers ; 500 ft and 3 to 4 miles outside rain showers with a ragged ceiling . Radar surveillance of the area gave no indication he was airborne in the area . A T - 33 and F - 100C were scrambled to search at high altitude for possible contrails and to establish visual contact with an aircraft squawking emergency . This emergency squawk was identified as a Navy P5M Flying Boat . No contrails were discovered at altitude .