On July 19 at the 2016 WWE draft , Reigns was drafted to the Raw brand . Despite Reigns ' suspension , WWE continued to advertise Reigns as part of the Battleground main event , and went on to acknowledge Reigns ' suspension on television . On July 24 at Battleground , Reigns made his televised return , facing Rollins and Dean Ambrose ( whom Rollins dropped the title to at Money in the Bank after Ambrose cashed - in his Money in the Bank contract ) for the now - renamed WWE Championship , but Ambrose successfully retained the championship when he pinned Reigns in a clean finish . The following night on Raw , Reigns also failed to contend for the newly announced WWE Universal Championship against Rollins at SummerSlam , as he lost to the debuting Finn Bálor after earlier winning a fatal four - way match that involved Chris Jericho , Sami Zayn and Sheamus . On the August 1 episode Raw , Reigns confronted Rusev , then on the August 8 episode of Raw , after interrupting Rusev and Lana 's wedding celebration , Reigns challenged him for the United States Championship , at which Rusev initially declined , but Raw General Manager Mick Foley scheduled Rusev to defend the United States Championship against Reigns at SummerSlam . At the event on August 21 , Reigns and Rusev brawled before the match began , leading to the match being declared a no contest . After Rusev cost Reigns the opportunity of becoming the number one contender for the WWE Universal Championship , Reigns would defeat Rusev at Clash of Champions on September 25 to win the United States Championship , and after weeks of brawling he successfully retained the title against Rusev in a Hell in a Cell match at the titular event on October 30 to end their feud . Reigns was later announced as a member for Team Raw in the traditional Survivor Series elimination tag team match on November 20 alongside Kevin Owens , Chris Jericho , former Shield brother Seth Rollins and Braun Strowman which Team Raw lost after Reigns was the last man to be eliminated by Bray Wyatt . On the November 28 episode of Raw , Reigns challenged WWE Universal Champion Kevin Owens to a non-title match which Reigns won and per the pre-match stipulation , Reigns faced Owens for the WWE Universal Championship at Roadblock : End of the Line on December 18 , but lost via disqualification when Chris Jericho attacked Owens to prevent Reigns from winning the title . On the January 9 , 2017 episode of Raw , Reigns lost the United States Championship to Jericho in a handicap match also involving Owens . This led to a no disqualification rematch with Owens at the Royal Rumble on January 29 that saw Jericho being suspended above the ring in a shark cage , where Reigns lost after Braun Strowman interfered . Later on the event , Reigns entered at number 30 in the Royal Rumble match , eliminating Bray Wyatt , Chris Jericho and The Undertaker before being last eliminated by Randy Orton . At Fastlane on March 5 , Reigns defeated Strowman , becoming the first person to pin Strowman since joining the main roster .