October 17 , 1974 : Nebraska becomes the first state to complete all of its mainline interstate highways with the dedication of its final piece of I - 80 . October 12 , 1979 : The final section of the Canada to Mexico freeway Interstate 5 is dedicated near Stockton , California . Representatives of the two neighboring nations attended the dedication to commemorate the first contiguous freeway connecting the North American countries . August 22 , 1986 : The final section of the coast - to - coast I - 80 ( San Francisco , California , to Teaneck , New Jersey ) is dedicated on the western edge of Salt Lake City , Utah , making I - 80 the world 's first contiguous freeway to span from the Atlantic to Pacific Ocean and , at the time , the longest contiguous freeway in the world . The section spanned from Redwood Road to just west of the Salt Lake City International Airport . At the dedication it was noted that coincidentally this was only 50 miles ( 80 km ) from Promontory Summit , where a similar feat was accomplished 120 years prior , the laying of the golden spike of the United States ' First Transcontinental Railroad . August 10 , 1990 : The final section of coast - to - coast I - 10 ( Santa Monica , California , to Jacksonville , Florida ) is dedicated , the Papago Freeway Tunnel under downtown Phoenix , Arizona . Completion of this section was delayed due to a freeway revolt that forced the cancellation of an originally planned elevated routing . September 12 , 1991 : I - 90 becomes the final coast - to - coast Interstate Highway ( Seattle , Washington to Boston , Massachusetts ) to be completed with the dedication of an elevated viaduct bypassing Wallace , Idaho . This section was delayed after residents forced the cancellation of the originally planned at - grade alignment that would have demolished much of downtown Wallace . The residents accomplished this feat by arranging for most of the downtown area to be declared a historic district and listed on the National Register of Historic Places ; this succeeded in blocking the path of the original alignment . After the dedication residents held a mock funeral celebrating the removal of the last stoplight on a transcontinental Interstate Highway . October 14 , 1992 : The original Interstate Highway system is proclaimed to be complete with the opening of I - 70 through Glenwood Canyon in Colorado . This section is considered an engineering marvel with a 12 - mile ( 19 km ) span featuring 40 bridges and numerous tunnels and is one of the most expensive rural highways per mile built in the United States . Although this was claimed the final section of Interstate Highway to open , at the time this section was dedicated there were still missing interchanges elsewhere in the system , making some Interstate Highways not contiguous .