No. in series No. in season Title Written by Original air date 40 `` A Beaver 's Tale / The Nutcracker '' A Beaver 's Tale : David Steven Cohen The Nutcracker : Billy Aronson September 6 , 2002 ( 2002 - 09 - 06 ) A Beaver 's Tale : When the local river floods Nowhere , Courage must locate the source of the disaster . When it turns out that a beaver 's dam is causing it , Courage helps the beaver follow his dreams rather than build dams . The Nutcracker : Courage and his owners go to the junkyard to hunt for useful trash , and Courage finds a nutcracker . Two man - eating rats want to feast on Muriel and Eustace . After Eustace is captured , Courage must get Muriel away from the rats . 41 `` Rumpledkiltskin / House Calls '' Rumpledkiltskin : Allan Neuwirth and Gary Cooper House Calls : Lori Lazarus September 13 , 2002 ( 2002 - 09 - 13 ) Rumpledkiltskin : Muriel 's `` Uncle Angus '' invites her to Scotland , where he imprisons her and demands that she makes thousands of kilts . Courage must learn Angus 's real name and free Muriel . House Calls : A lonely scientist named Dr. Gerhart wants neighbors , but his sentient house , who 's very old and envious , fends them away . He `` brings '' the 1962 ranch house next to his house with music , but Gerhart 's house intends on destroying the 1962 ranch house out of sheer jealousy and want for Gerhart all to itself . Courage then has to find a way to make Gerhart 's house happy . * Note * : Dr. Gerhart is a parody of the late Roy Orbison . 42 `` Le Quack Balloon / Windmill Vandals '' Le Quack Balloon : David Steven Cohen Windmill Vandals : Bill Marsilii September 20 , 2002 ( 2002 - 09 - 20 ) Le Quack Balloon : Le Quack kidnaps Muriel and puts her on a hot air balloon . He teaches her to bungee - jump from the balloon so she can grab a Swedish ingredient for her food , but he is tricking her so he can rob the Swedish national piggy bank instead . Windmill Vandals : If the windmill stops turning , the ghosts of terrifying dead vandals will return to attack everyone at the homestead . Courage and Muriel must keep the windmill moving while Eustace tries to fix it . 43 `` The Uncommon Cold / Farmer - Hunter , Farmer - Hunted '' The Uncommon Cold : David Steven Cohen Farmer - Hunter , Farmer - Hunted : Billy Aronson September 27 , 2002 ( 2002 - 09 - 27 ) The Uncommon Cold : Muriel seeks a cure for her unusual cold among some swamp - slugs enslaved by a snake named Big Bayou from Yoruba Mythology . The cure lies in Big Bayou 's book , which Courage must steal in order to heal Muriel and free the slugs . Farmer - Hunter , Farmer - Hunted : Eustace tries to prove that he can hunt like his deceased brother , Horst . But the deer families are tired of being hunted and the father deer decides to hunt Eustace instead . Courage hosts a game show to see who gets to shoot who . 44 5 `` Bride of Swamp Monster / Goat Pain '' Bride of Swamp Monster : David Steven Cohen Goat Pain : Lory Lazarus October 4 , 2002 ( 2002 - 10 - 04 ) Bride of Swamp Monster : Muriel buys a necklace , and puts her picture inside , but she loses the pendant in a local swamp . The Swamp Monster finds it and believes Muriel is his long - lost bride . Courage must locate the real bride of the Swamp Monster , and reconcile the long - lost lovers in order to get Muriel back . Goat Pain : Muriel sprains her back , and the only cure is a hot spring on top of Mt . Nowhere . The peak is guarded by a super-powerful goat angry at people for clogging the spring with trash , and Courage has to get past the goat and somehow restore the spring . 45 6 `` Muriel Blows Up / Profiles in Courage '' Muriel Blows Up : David Steven Cohen Profiles in Courage : Bill Marsilii October 11 , 2002 ( 2002 - 10 - 11 ) Muriel Blows Up : A missile strikes the 1962 ranch house , mutating a carrot in the garden . When Muriel eats it , she begins to grow . Courage must figure out a way to get to the general and disarm the device before time runs out . Profiles in Courage : Courage and his owners go to a county fair and have their silhouettes drawn . When the silhouettes come to life later that night and replace Muriel and Eustace , Courage must convince the creatures it 's more fun to be paper than people . 46 7 `` The Mask '' John R. Dilworth October 18 , 2002 ( 2002 - 10 - 18 ) A strange , dog hater woman of unknown origin , named Kitty , wearing a mask and a white robe , appears at the 1962 ranch house . She recklessly starts beating Courage with various items and she tells his owners that her best friend Bunny is being held by a gangster named `` Mad Dog '' , who treats Bunny as a slave . When Kitty tried to flee with Bunny , she was threatened by him to stay away from Bunny . Courage , who wants Kitty to leave the 1962 ranch house and needs to prove to her that not all dogs are bad , decides to rescue Bunny from Mad Dog . 47 8 `` Squatting Tiger , Hidden Dog / Muted Muriel '' Squatting Tiger , Hidden Dog : Billy Aronson Muted Muriel : David Steven Cohen October 25 , 2002 ( 2002 - 10 - 25 ) Squatting Tiger , Hidden Dog : A Chinese empress wants to grind up Muriel 's bones . Courage wants to save Muriel , but he must pass through a series of strange deadly tests first . Muted Muriel : Muriel has had enough of Eustace not listening to her , and she decides not to talk ever again . Courage visits Shirley and asks her if she can make her talk again . 48 9 `` Aqua - Farmer / Food of the Dragon '' Aqua - Farmer : Gary Cooper and Allan Neuwirth Food of the Dragon : David Steven Cohen October 25 , 2002 ( 2002 - 10 - 25 ) Aqua - Farmer : Unimpressed by Jojo the Dolphin 's performance at a local aquarium , Eustace challenges the sea mammal to a race , losing pathetically . He demands a rematch , staking his wife as the prize of the race . Food of the Dragon : A seafood dinner attracts a dragon who has n't learned to fly . He 's determined to eat Muriel and Eustace unless Courage can teach him to fly . 49 10 `` The Last of the Starmakers / Son of the Chicken from Outer Space '' The Last of the Starmakers : David Steven Cohen Son of the Chicken from Outer Space : Michelle Belly Dilworth November 1 , 2002 ( 2002 - 11 - 01 ) The Last of the Starmakers : A pregnant space - faring squid who creates stars lands on the farm , and Eustace plans to sell her eggs to the military for research . Courage has to save the eggs and the mother squid to keep the heavens twinkling . Son of the Chicken from Outer Space : The three - headed son of Courage 's 1st nemesis shows up , trying to fulfill a vow to kill him , but Courage is far more resourceful than the chicken anticipated . 50 11 `` Courageous Cure / Ball of Revenge '' Courageous Cure : David Steven Cohen Ball of Revenge : Michelle Belly Dilworth November 8 , 2002 ( 2002 - 11 - 08 ) Courageous Cure : A race of multi-limbed aliens arrive on Earth , seeking a cure for a virus which causes them to keep punching themselves . They experiment on Muriel and Eustace by letting them grow more hands . Ball of Revenge : All fed up with Muriel 's doting on Courage , Eustace invites Katz , Le Quack , the Weremole , the Cajun Fox , the Giant Foot , and the Puddle Queen to the house to kill Courage in a game of dodgeball . 51 12 `` Cabaret Courage / Wrath of the Librarian '' Cabaret Courage & Wrath of the Librarian David Steven Cohen November 15 , 2002 ( 2002 - 11 - 15 ) Cabaret Courage : Courage and his owners come to `` Hollowood '' , but after falling inside a manhole , they encounter a giant , fetus - like being who demands entertainment , and he explains to them that if he likes their performances , he will give out glamorous prizes , and Courage must find the beast 's true self through his heart . Wrath of the Librarian : Courage finds a two year overdue book . When he decides to return it , he does not have enough money for the $10,000 fee . The librarian casts a spell on Muriel and Eustace , turning them into the characters from the book until Courage finds enough money to pay the fee for the book . 52 13 `` Remembrance of Courage Past / Perfect '' Remembrance of Courage Past : Michael Sporn Perfect : Billy Aronson November 22 , 2002 ( 2002 - 11 - 22 ) Remembrance of Courage Past : Courage 's mysterious past comes to light , when his parents were sent to space by a veterinarian . When Muriel and Eustace notice he is not responding , still haunted by that treacherous event , they take him to the same vet that sent his parents into space , unaware that the vet is now going to send the first humans to the moon , which will be Muriel and Eustace . Courage must save them after realizing that Muriel has become a major character in his life , besides his parents . Perfect : When Courage can not do anything correctly , the `` Teacher '' approaches him , who is the manifestation of Courage 's own doubts and insecurities that have plagued him . She trains him strictly into becoming a perfect dog , but in the end , Courage learns that there is no such thing as perfect .