The conservation movement seeks to protect natural areas for sustainable consumption , as well as traditional ( hunting , fishing , trapping ) and spiritual use . Environmental conservation is the process in which one is involved in conserving the natural aspects of the environment . Whether through reforestation , recycling , or pollution control , environmental conservation sustains the natural quality of life . Environmental health movement dates at least to Progressive Era , and focuses on urban standards like clean water , efficient sewage handling , and stable population growth . Environmental health could also deal with nutrition , preventive medicine , aging , and other concerns specific to human well - being . Environmental health is also seen as an indicator for the state of the environment , or an early warning system for what may happen to humans Environmental justice is a movement that began in the U.S. in the 1980s and seeks an end to environmental racism and prevent low - income and minority communities from an unbalanced exposure to highways , garbage dumps , and factories . The Environmental Justice movement seeks to link `` social '' and `` ecological '' environmental concerns , while at the same time preventing de facto racism , and classism . This makes it particularly adequate for the construction of labor - environmental alliances . Ecology movement could involve the Gaia Theory , as well as Value of Earth and other interactions between humans , science , and responsibility . Bright green environmentalism is a currently popular sub-movement , which emphasizes the idea that through technology , good design and more thoughtful use of energy and resources , people can live responsible , sustainable lives while enjoying prosperity . Light green , and dark green environmentalism are yet other sub-movements , respectively distinguished by seeing environmentalism as a lifestyle choice ( light greens ) , and promoting reduction in human numbers and / or a relinquishment of technology ( dark greens ) Deep Ecology is an ideological spinoff of the ecology movement that views the diversity and integrity of the planetary ecosystem , in and for itself , as its primary value . The anti-nuclear movement opposes the use of various nuclear technologies . The initial anti-nuclear objective was nuclear disarmament and later the focus began to shift to other issues , mainly opposition to the use of nuclear power . There have been many large anti-nuclear demonstrations and protests . Major anti-nuclear groups include Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament , Friends of the Earth , Greenpeace , International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War , and the Nuclear Information and Resource Service .