Ra 's al Ghul appears in The Batman Adventures . He arrived to break up a fight between Batman and Sensei and even had to allow Sensei to go with Batman . Ra 's al Ghul appears in the comic book tie - in to Young Justice . In issue 11 , Ra 's al Ghul oversaw the hijacking of the rocket at Cape Canaveral and had the original research payload replaced with a diamond lens that would turn sun beams into death beams that would attack the various cities . Batman and Robin end up fighting Ra 's al Ghul which ended with Ra 's falling off the tower to his death . Ubu and Talia were able to get Ra 's back to Infinity Island where Sensei used the Lazarus Pit to revive Ra 's al Ghul . After emerging from the Lazarus Pit , Ra 's al Ghul ordered Sensei to prepare their weapon called the Serpent . In issue 12 , Ra 's al Ghul arrived where he found Sensei and Talia being attacked by Clayface and learned from Sensei that the monster was their operative Matt Hagen . After Ra 's al Ghul stated to Clayface that he was still a member of the League of Shadows and commanded him to sleep , he ordered Sensei to ship Clayface to Gotham City for him to bother Batman and then demanded an explanation from Talia on how Clayface came to be . In Arrow tie - in comic , The Dark Archer , it is revealed that Ra 's al Ghul and his League had encounter with a similar organisation named `` The Hidden '' in 1985 . They encoutered Malcolm Merlyn ( who will join to them 9 years later ) and Darius when searching for Ashkiri marker ( in fact the entire mountain ) in Hindu Kush mountains , but their vehicle was flipped in sandstorm and knocking out some members . Ra 's punished an assassin for losing The Hidden . The member of The Hidden , Darius , is revealed as member of the League , acting as a double agent . Ra 's and Darius went to enter Ashkiri temple for searching Lazarus Pit and the hearts of snow leopard gods , while The Hidden wanted to protect the temple from them . In the same time , Lourdes ( implied to be Nyssa 's mother Amina Raatko ) and Malcolm also entered the temple whose aim was to seal a temple . Ra 's and Darius found Lourdes attacked by Ashkiri gods after she was left behind by Malcolm . Ra 's saved her , while Darius was killed by them , due to the need of sacrifice . Lourdes became Ra 's concubine until ten years later when she was saved by The Hidden , along with her son , Saracon .