In the 2013 Disney film Oz the Great and Powerful , the Wicked Witch of the East , Evanora , is the main antagonist . She was portrayed by Rachel Weisz . In this version , the Witch is the older sister of Theodora , Wicked Witch of the West ( Mila Kunis ) , and is at war with Glinda ( Michelle Williams ) for control of Oz . She originally portrayed herself as a Good Witch , and had been an adviser to the former king of Oz , whom she murdered , so that she could be in charge of the Emerald City herself . Evanora deceived Oscar Diggs by framing the King 's daughter Glinda for the murder and telling him that Glinda is the Wicked Witch instead of herself , which resulted in Glinda being outlawed from the Emerald City and retreating to the South . Evanora manipulates her sister , who is in love with Oscar Diggs ( James Franco ) , and ends up transforming Theodora into the Wicked Witch ( of the West , eventually ) . Evanora is later fooled and scared by Oscar 's tricks and banished from the Emerald City . Before she flees , Glinda encounters her and the two witches fight . Evanora seems to have an upper hand , but Glinda then crushes her emerald necklace , the source of her power , and the Wicked Witch 's youthful and beautiful appearance turns into that of a hideous old crone , which Glinda believes is a reflection of her true nature . Furious , Evanora tries to attack the Good Witch of the South , but Glinda blasts her out of the window . Evanora is then carried away by her last flying baboons , but not before swearing a personal revenge on Glinda for foiling her . The emerald necklace she wore enabled her to project her power from her very fingertips in a form that resembled green lightning . The magic shoes that the witch would ultimately become associated with are not even discussed in this film , nor does she officially become the Wicked Witch of the East during the story , which ends with the Wizard taking over the Emerald City . This is one of the significant differences from L. Frank Baum 's original books , in which the Wicked Witches of the East and West were already ruling the Munchkin Country and the Winkie Country by the time the Wizard first arrived in Oz . In the comic book series Oz Squad , the Wicked Witch of the East is called Rebecca Eastwitch . In the comic book series Grimm Fairy Tales presents Oz , the Wicked Witch of the East is named Zinna . In the TV series Once Upon a Time , there is a Witch of the East , but she is not evil and Dorothy 's house does not fall on her . The Witches in this series are a benign sisterhood who watch over Oz , but they are eventually overthrown by Zelena , the Wicked Witch of the West , played by Rebecca Mader , who was unable to control her jealousy of Dorothy . In this version the Wicked Witch of the West 's sister is the Evil Queen from the story of Snow White . In the TV series Emerald City , the Witch of the East ( portrayed by Florence Kasumba ) appears as guest star . In this version she was one of the last cardinal witches of Oz , known as the Witch of the East `` the Mistress of the Eastern Wood , the Most Merciful and Stern '' . When Dorothy ( Adria Arjona ) arrives in Oz , she initially believes that she has killed the Witch of the East when the police car she was in during the initial tornado hit the Witch , but it is later revealed that the Witch survived this incident . She goes on to confront Dorothy and her new companion Lucas , refusing to accept Dorothy 's explanation that her appearance was an accident . Faced with the prospect of torture until she gives the Witch the answer she wants despite the fact that she is already telling the truth , Dorothy uses the Witch 's current examination of a gun taken from the police car to trick her into pointing the gun at herself and pulling the trigger , blowing a hole through her head . After the witch 's death , Dorothy ' inherits ' her ruby - encrusted golden ' gloves ' , giving her potential access to the Witch 's raw magical power even if she lacks control of it . The season finale states that only witches can kill witches , as the Wizard creates new guns to kill the remaining lower - ranking witches and they simply come back to life , but it appears likely that the Witch of the East remains dead as she technically killed herself .