In 1977 , Adam West and Burt Ward returned as voice actors for the second Filmation - produced animated series , The New Adventures of Batman . In 1979 , West , Ward , and Frank Gorshin reunited and reprised their respective roles on NBC for Hanna - Barbera 's two Legends of the Superheroes television specials . In the 1980s , several cast members teamed up for a series of celebrity editions of Family Feud . The participants were Adam West , Burt Ward , Yvonne Craig , Lee Meriwether , and Vincent Price . In 1984 , West would once again reprise his role as Batman in animated form when he succeeded Olan Soule in the final two seasons of Super Friends . November 1985 would see several cast members reunited on the syndicated afternoon talk show , America as Adam West , Burt Ward , Julie Newmar and Yvonne Craig we 're reunited along with the original Batmobile which was still covered with flocking from its tours since the 70s . In 1997 , West returned to the role of the Batman for the first time in 12 years voicing The Caped Crusader / Spruce Wayne in the animated short Boo Wonder . It was the fourth segment of episode 93 ( season 5 ) of Animaniacs produced by Warner Bros. It was a parody of the 1966 Batman TV series with Animaniacs character Chicken Boo replacing Robin The Boy Wonder . In 2003 , West and Ward reunited for a tongue - in - cheek television movie titled Return to the Batcave : The Misadventures of Adam and Burt which combined dramatized recreations of the filming of the original series ( with younger actors standing in for the stars ) , with modern footage of West and Ward searching for a stolen Batmobile . The film included cameo appearances by Newmar , Gorshin , and Lee Meriwether , as well as Lyle Waggoner , who had been an early candidate for the role of Batman . Yvonne Craig did not appear in the movie -- she reportedly disliked the script . The movie was released on DVD in May 2005 . In 2005 , Adam West again returned to the role of Batman / Bruce Wayne for the Digital Animation & Visual Effects ( DAVE ) School released Batman : New Times , a short CGI film in which all characters were portrayed as Minimates ( predating the Lego film craze ) . In addition to West , other notable voice actors included Mark Hamill as The Joker , Courtney Thorne - Smith as Catwoman and Dick Van Dyke as Commissioner Gordon