Season Title Episodes Director Characters Season premiere `` Total Drama Island '' 28 Todd Kauffman / Mark Thornton 22 July 8 , 2007 ( 2007 - 07 - 08 ) Total Drama Island is the first season of the series . It first premiered on Canada on July 8 , 2007 and June 5 , 2008 on the United States . This season takes place at Camp Wawanakwa , a fictional island located somewhere in Muskoka , Ontario where the season is based on a summer camp theme ( although a contestant is eliminated at the end of every episode ) . Like the whole series , this season is a competition to see which of the twenty - two contestants will survive and last the longest . This is because the contestants are brutally tortured along the way through the intense challenges they are given . Challenges are sometimes based on other reality shows like Fear Factor and Survivor . All of this is so that the winner of the season ( the one to last the longest on the island and not get eliminated ) , will win a small fortune of C $ 100,000 and cheesy fame . Eliminated contestants are sent packing toward the Dock of Shame and must ride the Boat of Losers off the island . `` Total Drama Action '' 27 Todd Kauffman / Mark Thornton 15 January 11 , 2009 ( 2009 - 01 - 11 ) Total Drama Action is the second season of the series . It premiered on Canada on January 11 , 2009 and June 10 in the U.S. It is a sequel to the first season of the series , Total Drama Island . In this season , fourteen characters from previous returned : Beth , Bridgette , DJ , Duncan , Geoff , Gwen , Harold , Heather , Izzy , Justin , Leshawna , Lindsay , Owen , and Trent . Courtney returns later on in the season due to a lawsuit . In this season , the contestants are taken to a brand new location : an old film lot in the center of Toronto , Ontario . The challenges are now based on movie genres , and the grand prize is now C $1,000,000 . Cody , Eva , Ezekiel , Noah , Katie , Sadie , and Tyler do not return to compete , but still appeared for the aftermath special , an extra show which was hosted by Bridgette and Geoff , the first two eliminated contestants . All losers must take the Walk of Shame on the red carpet and ride the Lame - o - sine . `` Total Drama World Tour '' 26 Keith Oliver / Chad Hicks 18 June 10 , 2010 ( 2010 - 06 - 10 ) Total Drama World Tour is the third season of the series . It premiered in 2010 internationally and continued onto 2011 in Canada . In this season , seventeen contestants are taken on a trip around the world as they compete in cultural themed challenges based on the countries or regions that they visit . An added twist in this season is that the contestants are required to break spontaneously into song , or else be immediately eliminated by Chris ( although this rule was not strongly enforced , and no one was eliminated for not singing anyway ) . Fifteen of the original characters from previous returned : Bridgette , Cody , Courtney , DJ , Duncan , Ezekiel , Gwen , Harold , Heather , Izzy , Leshawna , Lindsay , Noah , Owen , and Tyler . Two new characters , Alejandro and Sierra , also joined the cast at the beginning of this season . Additionally , a third new character , Blaineley , was brought on to compete past the halfway point of the season . Beth , Eva , Geoff , Justin , Katie , Sadie , and Trent did not return to compete , but have instead appeared for the aftermath specials . The prize for this season is also C $1,000,000 . People are eliminated by jumping off the Drop of Shame . `` Total Drama : Revenge of the Island '' 13 Keith Oliver / Chad Hicks 13 January 5 , 2012 ( 2012 - 01 - 05 ) Total Drama : Revenge of the Island is the fourth season of the series . The series ' extension was commissioned by Teletoon from the producers , Fresh TV Inc . It premiered in Canada on January 5 , 2012 and in the United States on June 5 , 2012 . This season returns to Camp Wawanakwa ( the original setting of the first season ) , but no contestants from previous seasons return . Instead , a new set of thirteen contestants compete , which are Anne Maria , B , Brick , Cameron , Dakota , Dawn , Jo , Lightning , Mike , Sam , Scott , Staci , and Zoey . However , some characters from the original cast still have cameo appearances throughout the season . Also , due to the island being abandoned for the past two seasons , Chris had lent the island to a biohazardous waste dump company , causing the island to turn radioactive . This means that causes of radiation and toxic waste is the main theme for this season . This season only contains 13 episodes ( half the length of a regular season ) , and the cash prize is once again C $1,000,000 . People are eliminated off the island by the Hurl of Shame . 5 `` Total Drama All - Stars and Pahkitew Island '' 26 Keith Oliver / Chad Hicks 28 January 9 , 2014 ( 2014 - 01 - 09 ) Total Drama All - Stars and Total Drama : Pahkitew Island both make up the fifth and most recent season of the Total Drama series which were ordered by Cartoon Network in October 2012 as 26 episodes . Both parts of Season 5 feature different islands and casts , but share similar elements and are both under the same production code . Total Drama All - Stars is the first part of the fifth and most recent season of the series . While the season premiered on January 9 , 2014 in Canada and on September 10 , 2013 in the United States . This segment is 13 episodes long , just like the previous season . Total Drama All - Stars features the fourteen most popular contestants from the previous two seasons , which are : Alejandro , Cameron , Courtney , Duncan , Gwen , Heather , Jo , Lightning , Lindsay , Mike , Sam , Scott , Sierra , and Zoey . They all compete in several `` Heroes vs. Villains '' themed challenges , which means that the protagonists ( heroes ) team up and compete against the antagonists ( villains ) . People will now be eliminated by taking the Flush of Shame and the winner once again takes home C $1,000,000 . Total Drama : Pahkitew Island is the second part of the fifth and most recent season and was announced on June 11 , 2013 . It also consists of 13 episodes and takes place at a new location , this time on an island called Pahkitew Island located somewhere in Western Canada . A new set of fourteen contestants compete in this season , which are : Amy , Beardo , Dave , Ella , Jasmine , Leonard , Max , Rodney , Samey , Scarlett , Shawn , Sky , Sugar , and Topher . The last part of this season first aired in the United States on July 7 , 2014 and later in Canada on September 4 , 2014 . Eliminations now take place via the Cannon of Shame and features another one million dollar grand prize . Pahkitew Island features various similar elements to Camp Wawanakwa but the island is much bigger and mostly artificial .