Fatty acid metabolism Acetyl - CoA is produced by the breakdown of both carbohydrates ( by glycolysis ) and lipids ( by β - oxidation ) . It then enters the citric acid cycle in the mitochondrion by combining with oxaloacetate to form citrate . Two acetyl - CoA molecules condense to form acetoacetyl - CoA , which gives rise to the formation of acetoacetate and β - hydroxybutyrate . Acetoacetate , β - hydroxybutyrate , and their spontaneous breakdown product acetone are frequently , but confusingly , known as ketone bodies ( as they are not `` bodies '' at all , but water - soluble chemical substances ) . The ketone bodies are released by the liver into the blood . All cells with mitochondria can take ketone bodies up from the blood and reconvert them into acetyl - CoA , which can then be used as fuel in their citric acid cycles , as no other tissue can divert its oxaloacetate into the gluconeogenic pathway in the way that the liver does . Unlike free fatty acids , ketone bodies can cross the blood - brain barrier and are therefore available as fuel for the cells of the central nervous system , acting as a substitute for glucose , on which these cells normally survive . The occurrence of high levels of ketone bodies in the blood during starvation , a low - carbohydrate diet , prolonged heavy exercise , and uncontrolled type - 1 diabetes mellitus is known as ketosis , and in its extreme form in out - of - control type - 1 diabetes mellitus , as ketoacidosis . On the other hand , when the insulin concentration in the blood is high , and that of glucagon is low ( i.e. after meals ) , the acetyl - CoA produced by glycolysis condenses as normal with oxaloacetate to form citrate in the mitochondrion . However , instead of continuing through the citric acid cycle to be converted to carbon dioxide and water , the citrate is removed from the mitochondrion into the cytoplasm . There it is cleaved by ATP citrate lyase into acetyl - CoA and oxaloacetate . The oxaloacetate is returned to the mitochondrion as malate ( and then converted back into oxaloacetate to transfer more acetyl - CoA out of the mitochondrion ) . This cytosolic acetyl - CoA can then be used to synthesize fatty acids through carboxylation by acetyl - CoA carboxylase into malonyl CoA , the first committed step in the synthesis of fatty acids . This conversion occurs primarily in the liver , adipose tissue and lactating mammary glands , where the fatty acids are combined with glycerol to form triglycerides , the major fuel reservoir of most animals . Fatty acids are also components of the phospholipids that make up the bulk of the lipid bilayers of all cellular membranes . In plants , de novo fatty acid synthesis occurs in the plastids . Many seeds accumulate large reservoirs of seed oils to support germination and early growth of the seedling before it is a net photosynthetic organism . The cytosolic acetyl - CoA can also condense with acetoacetyl - CoA to form 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaryl - CoA ( HMG - CoA ) which is the rate - limiting step controlling the synthesis of cholesterol . Cholesterol can be used as is , as a structural component of cellular membranes , or it can be used to synthesize steroid hormones , bile salts , and vitamin D . Acetyl - CoA can be carboxylated in the cytosol by acetyl - CoA carboxylase , giving rise to malonyl - CoA , a substrate required for synthesis of flavonoids and related polyketides , for elongation of fatty acids to produce waxes , cuticle , and seed oils in members of the Brassica family , and for malonation of proteins and other phytochemicals . In plants , these include sesquiterpenes , brassinosteroids ( hormones ) , and membrane sterols .