Field Person / s considered `` father '' or `` mother '' Rationale Atomic theory ( early ) Democritus Founder of atomism in cosmology . Atomic theory ( modern ) Father Roger Boscovich First coherent description of atomic theory . John Dalton First scientific description of the atom as a building block for more complex structures . Chemical thermodynamics ( modern ) Gilbert Lewis / Willard Gibbs / Merle Randall / Edward Guggenheim Thermodynamics and the Free Energy of Chemical Substances ( 1923 ) and Modern Thermodynamics by the Methods of Willard Gibbs ( 1933 ) , which made a major contribution to the use of thermodynamics in chemistry . Chemistry ( early ) Jabir ( `` Geber '' ) ibn Hayyan ( died 815 ) Introduced the experimental method to Islamic alchemy . Chemistry ( modern ) Antoine Lavoisier Elements of Chemistry ( 1787 ) Robert Boyle The Sceptical Chymist ( 1661 ) Jöns Berzelius Development of chemical nomenclature ( 1800s ) John Dalton Revival of atomic theory ( 1803 ) Green chemistry Paul Anastas Design and manufacture of chemicals that are non-hazardous and environmentally benign . Nuclear chemistry Otto Hahn Applied Radiochemistry ( 1936 ) First person to split an atomic nucleus ( nuclear fission , 1938 ) Nobel Prize in Chemistry for this discovery ( 1944 ) Periodic table Dmitri Mendeleev Arranged the sixty - six elements known at the time in order of atomic weight by periodic intervals ( 1869 ) . Physical chemistry Mikhail Lomonosov The first to read lectures in physical chemistry and coin the term ( 1752 ) . Jacobus van ' t Hoff Jacobus van ' t Hoff is considered to be one of the founders of the discipline of physical chemistry . His work helped found the discipline as it is today . Svante Arrhenius Devised much of the theoretical foundation for physical chemistry . On the Equilibrium of Heterogeneous Substances ( 1876 ) , Thermodynamik chemischer Vorgange ( 1882 ) . Wilhelm Ostwald `` Wilhelm Ostwald is considered one of the founders of the discipline of physical chemistry ... '' Hermann von Helmholtz