Field Person / s considered `` father '' or `` mother '' Rationale Acoustics Ernst Chladni For important research in vibrating plates Atomic bomb Enrico Fermi J. Robert Oppenheimer Leslie Groves Edward Teller For their role in the Manhattan Project Aerodynamics Nikolai Zhukovsky George Cayley Zhukovsky was the first to undertake the study of airflow , was the first engineer scientist to explain mathematically the origin of aerodynamic lift . Cayley Investigated theoretical aspects of flight and experimented with flight a century before the first airplane was built Physical cosmology Albert Einstein ( founder ) Henrietta Leavitt ( mother ) Edwin Hubble ( father ) Leavitt discovered Cepheid variables , the `` Standard Candle '' by which Hubble later determined galactic distances . Einstein 's general theory of relativity is usually recognized as the theoretic foundation of modern cosmology . Classical mechanics Isaac Newton ( founder ) Described laws of motion and law of gravity in Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( 1687 ) Electricity William Gilbert Michael Faraday Book : De Magnete ( 1600 ) Discovered electromagnetic induction ( 1831 ) Electrodynamics André - Marie Ampère Book : Memoir on the Mathematical Theory of Electrodynamic Phenomena , Uniquely Deduced from Experience ( 1827 ) Energetics Willard Gibbs Publication : On the Equilibrium of Heterogeneous Substances ( 1876 ) Experimental physics ( founder ) Ibn al - Haytham ( Alhazen ) For introducing experimental method into physics with his Book of Optics ( 1021 ) Modern astronomy Nicolaus Copernicus Developed the first explicit heliocentric model in De revolutionibus orbium coelestium ( 1543 ) Nuclear physics Ernest Rutherford Developed the Rutherford atom model ( 1909 ) Nuclear science Marie Curie Pierre Curie Optics Ibn al - Haytham ( Alhazen ) Correctly explained vision and carried out the first experiments on light and optics in the Book of Optics ( 1021 ) . Physics ( early ) Ibn al - Haytham ( Alhazen ) Francis Bacon Alhazen developed rigorous experimental methods of controlled scientific testing to verify theoretical hypotheses and substantiate inductive conjectures . Developed Baconian method in his Novum Organum ( 1620 ) . Physics ( modern ) Galileo Galilei His development and extensive use of experimental physics , e.g. the telescope Plasma physics Irving Langmuir Hannes Alfvén Langmuir first described ionised gas as plasma and observed fundamental plasma vibrations , Langmuir waves . Alfvén pioneered the theoretical description of plasma by developing magnetohydrodynamics . Quantum mechanics Max Planck ( founder ) Werner Heisenberg Stated that electromagnetic energy could be emitted only in quantized form Relativity Albert Einstein ( founder ) Pioneered special relativity ( 1905 ) and general relativity ( 1915 ) Spaceflight ( rocketry ) Robert Hutchings Goddard Konstantin Tsiolkovsky Hermann Oberth Goddard launched the first liquid - fueled rocket . Tsiolkovsky created the Tsiolkovsky rocket equation . Thermodynamics Sadi Carnot ( founder ) Publication : On the Motive Power of Fire and Machines Fitted to Develop that Power ( 1824 )