In 1763 , Spain traded Florida to the Kingdom of Great Britain for control of Havana , Cuba , which had been captured by the British during the Seven Years ' War . It was part of a large expansion of British territory following the country 's victory in the Seven Years ' War . Almost the entire Spanish population left , taking along most of the remaining indigenous population to Cuba . The British divided the territory into East Florida and West Florida . The British soon constructed the King 's Road connecting St. Augustine to Georgia . The road crossed the St. Johns River at a narrow point , which the Seminole called Wacca Pilatka and the British named `` Cow Ford '' , both names ostensibly reflecting the fact that cattle were brought across the river there . The British government gave land grants to officers and soldiers who had fought in the French and Indian War in order to encourage settlement . In order to induce settlers to move to the two new colonies reports of the natural wealth of Florida were published in England . A large number of British colonists who were `` energetic and of good character '' moved to Florida , mostly coming from South Carolina , Georgia and England though there was also a group of settlers who came from the colony of Bermuda . This would be the first permanent English - speaking population in what is now Duval County , Baker County , St. Johns County and Nassau County . The British built good public roads and introduced the cultivation of sugar cane , indigo and fruits as well the export of lumber . As a result of these initiatives northeastern Florida prospered economically in a way it never did under Spanish rule . Furthermore , the British governors were directed to call general assemblies as soon as possible in order to make laws for the Floridas and in the meantime they were , with the advice of councils , to establish courts . This would be the first introduction of much of the English - derived legal system which Florida still has today including trial - by - jury , habeas corpus and county - based government .