The most medically important species of snake bites in Central Asia is the Caspian cobra ( Naja oxiana ) . It is the most venomous species of cobra in the world , slightly ahead of the Philippines cobra based on a toxinological study from 1992 found in the Indian Journal of Experimental Biology , in which this species produced the highest potency venom among cobras . The venom of this species has the most potent composition of toxins found among any cobra species known . It is made up of primarily highly potent neurotoxins but it also has cytotoxic activity ( tissue - death , necrosis ) and cardiotoxins . Two forms of `` cytotoxin II '' ( cardiotoxin ) were found in the venom of this species . The crude venom of this species produced the lowest known lethal dose ( LCLo ) of 0.005 mg / kg , the lowest among all cobra species , derived from an individual case of poisoning by intracerebroventricular injection . A 1992 extensive toxinology study gave a value of 0.18 mg / kg ( range of 0.1 mg / kg - 0.26 mg / kg ) by subcutaneous injection . According to Brown ( 1973 ) , the subcutaneous LD value is 0.4 mg / kg , while Ernst and Zug et al. list a value of 0.21 mg / kg SC and 0.037 mg / kg IV . Latifi ( 1984 ) listed a subcutaneous value of 0.2 mg / kg . In another study , where venom was collected from a number of specimens in Iran , the IV LD in lab mice was 0.078 mg / kg . Average venom yield per bite for this species is between 75 and 125 mg ( dry weight ) , but it may yield up to 590 mg ( dry weight ) in a single bite . The bite of this species may cause severe pain and swelling , along with severe neurotoxicity . Weakness , drowsiness , ataxia , hypotension , and paralysis of throat and limbs may appear in less than one hour after the bite . Without medical treatment , symptoms rapidly worsen and death can occur rapidly after a bite due to respiratory failure . An adult woman bitten by this species in northwestern Pakistan suffered severe neurotoxicity and died while en route to the closest hospital nearly 50 minutes after envenomation . Between 1979 and 1987 , 136 confirmed bites were attributed to this species in the former Soviet Union . Of the 136 , 121 received antivenom , and only four died . Of the 15 who did not receive antivenom , 11 died . This species is an abundant snake in northeastern Iran and is responsible for a very large number of snakebite mortalities . Antivenom is not as effective for envenomation by this species as it is for other Asiatic cobras within the same region , like the Indian cobra ( Naja naja ) and due to the dangerous toxicity of this species ' venom , massive amounts of antivenom are often required for patients . As a result , a monovalent antivenom serum is being developed by the Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute in Iran . The untreated mortality rate for this species is 70 - 75 % , which is the highest among all cobra species of the genus Naja .