Common and formal names Membership within the UN System Sovereignty dispute Further information on status and recognition of sovereignty A AAA A AAA A AAA ZZZ ↓ UN member states and observer states ↓ A AAA ZZZ ZZZ Abkhazia → Abkhazia A UN member state A None Afghanistan -- Islamic Republic of Afghanistan A UN member state A None Albania -- Republic of Albania A UN member state A None Algeria -- People 's Democratic Republic of Algeria A UN member state A None Andorra -- Principality of Andorra A UN member state A None Andorra is a co-principality in which the office of head of state is jointly held ex officio by the French president and the bishop of the Roman Catholic diocese of Urgell , who himself is appointed by the Holy See . Angola -- Republic of Angola A UN member state A None Antigua and Barbuda A UN member state A None Antigua and Barbuda is a Commonwealth realm with 1 autonomous region , Barbuda . Argentina -- Argentine Republic A UN member state A None Argentina is a federation of 23 provinces and 1 autonomous city . Armenia -- Republic of Armenia A UN member state A None Not recognized by Pakistan . See Armenia -- Pakistan relations and Nagorno - Karabakh conflict . ZZZ Artsakh → Artsakh A UN member state A None Australia -- Commonwealth of Australia A UN member state A None Australia is a Commonwealth realm and a federation of six states and 10 territories . The external territories of Australia are : Ashmore and Cartier Islands Australian Antarctic Territory Christmas Island Cocos ( Keeling ) Islands Coral Sea Islands Territory Heard Island and McDonald Islands Norfolk Island Austria -- Republic of Austria A UN member state A None Member of the European Union . Austria is a federation of nine states ( Bundesländer ) . Azerbaijan -- Republic of Azerbaijan A UN member state A None Azerbaijan contains two autonomous regions , Nakhchivan and Nagorno - Karabakh ( Dağlıq Qarabağ ) . The Republic of Artsakh , a de facto state , has been established in the latter . Bahamas , The -- Commonwealth of The Bahamas A UN member state A None The Bahamas is a Commonwealth realm . Bahrain -- Kingdom of Bahrain A UN member state A None Bangladesh -- People 's Republic of Bangladesh A UN member state A None Barbados A UN member state A None Barbados is a Commonwealth realm . Belarus -- Republic of Belarus A UN member state A None Belarus forms the Union State jointly with Russia . Belgium -- Kingdom of Belgium A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Belgium is a federation divided into linguistic communities and regions . Belize A UN member state A None Belize is a Commonwealth realm . Benin -- Republic of Benin A UN member state A None Bhutan -- Kingdom of Bhutan A UN member state A None Bolivia -- Plurinational State of Bolivia A UN member state A None Bosnia and Herzegovina A UN member state A None Bosnia and Herzegovina is a federation of two constituent units : Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Republika Srpska and Brčko District , a self - governing administrative unit . Botswana -- Republic of Botswana A UN member state A None Brazil -- Federative Republic of Brazil A UN member state A None Brazil is a federation of 26 states and 1 federal district . Brunei -- Nation of Brunei , Abode of Peace A UN member state A None Bulgaria -- Republic of Bulgaria A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Burkina Faso A UN member state A None Burma → Myanmar A UN member state A None Burundi -- Republic of Burundi A UN member state A None Cambodia -- Kingdom of Cambodia A UN member state A None Cameroon -- Republic of Cameroon A UN member state A None Canada A UN member state A None Canada is a Commonwealth realm and a federation of 10 provinces and 3 territories . Cape Verde -- Republic of Cabo Verde A UN member state A None Central African Republic A UN member state A None Chad -- Republic of Chad A UN member state A None Chile -- Republic of Chile A UN member state A None Chile has two `` special territories '' in the Valparaíso Region : Easter Island and Juan Fernández Islands China -- People 's Republic of China A UN member state Partially unrecognized . B Claimed by Georgia Claimed by North Korea Claimed by Serbia Claimed by Somalia Claimed by the People 's Republic of China Claimed by the Republic of China Claimed by South Korea Claimed by Azerbaijan Claimed by the Republic of Cyprus Disputed by Israel Claimed by Morocco Claimed by Moldova Claimed by Mali Claimed by Spain The People 's Republic of China ( PRC ) contains five autonomous regions : Guangxi Inner Mongolia Ningxia Xinjiang Tibet Additionally , it has sovereignty over the Special Administrative Regions of : Hong Kong Macau China claims , but does not control Taiwan , which is governed by a rival administration ( the Republic of China ) that claims all of China as its territory . China is not recognised by 20 UN member states and the Holy See , which , with the exception of Bhutan , recognise Taiwan instead . China controls part of the territory of Kashmir , which is disputed by India and Pakistan . China , Republic of → Taiwan A UN member state A None Colombia -- Republic of Colombia A UN member state A None Comoros -- Union of the Comoros A UN member state A None Comoros is a federation of 3 islands . Congo , Democratic Republic of the A UN member state A None Congo , Republic of the A UN member state A None ZZZ Cook Islands → Cook Islands A UN member state A None Costa Rica -- Republic of Costa Rica A UN member state A None Côte d'Ivoire → Ivory Coast A UN member state A None Croatia -- Republic of Croatia A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Cuba -- Republic of Cuba A UN member state A None Cyprus -- Republic of Cyprus A UN member state Not recognized by Turkey Member of the EU . The northeastern part of the island is the de facto state of Northern Cyprus . See Foreign relations of Cyprus and Cyprus dispute . Turkey refers to the Republic of Cyprus government as `` The Greek Cypriot Administration of Southern Cyprus '' . Czech Republic A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Democratic People 's Republic of Korea → Korea , North A UN member state A None Democratic Republic of the Congo → Congo , Democratic Republic of the A UN member state A None Denmark -- Kingdom of Denmark A UN member state A None Member of the EU . The Kingdom of Denmark includes 2 self - governing territories : Faroe Islands Greenland The continental territory of Denmark , the Faroe Islands , and Greenland form the three constituent countries of the Kingdom . The designation `` Denmark '' can refer either to continental Denmark or to the short name for the entire Kingdom ( e.g. in international organizations ) . The Kingdom of Denmark as a whole is a member of the EU , but EU law does not apply to the Faroe Islands and Greenland . Also see Greenland Treaty . Djibouti -- Republic of Djibouti A UN member state A None Dominica -- Commonwealth of Dominica A UN member state A None Dominican Republic A UN member state A None East Timor -- Democratic Republic of Timor - Leste A UN member state A None Ecuador -- Republic of Ecuador A UN member state A None Egypt -- Arab Republic of Egypt A UN member state A None El Salvador -- Republic of El Salvador A UN member state A None Equatorial Guinea -- Republic of Equatorial Guinea A UN member state A None Eritrea -- State of Eritrea A UN member state A None Estonia -- Republic of Estonia A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Ethiopia -- Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia A UN member state A None Ethiopia is a federation of nine regions and two chartered cities . Fiji -- Republic of Fiji A UN member state A None Fiji contains 1 autonomous region , Rotuma . Finland -- Republic of Finland A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Åland is a neutral and demilitarised autonomous region of Finland . France -- French Republic A UN member state A None Member of the EU . France contains five overseas regions / departments : French Guiana , Guadeloupe , Martinique , Mayotte , and Réunion . France also includes the overseas territories of : Clipperton Island French Polynesia New Caledonia Saint Barthélemy Saint Martin Saint Pierre and Miquelon Wallis and Futuna French Southern and Antarctic Lands Gabon -- Gabonese Republic A UN member state A None Gambia Gambia , The -- Republic of The Gambia A UN member state A None Georgia A UN member state A None Georgia contains two autonomous republics , Adjara and Abkhazia . In Abkhazia and South Ossetia , de facto states have been formed . Germany -- Federal Republic of Germany A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Germany is a federation of 16 federated states ( Länder ) . Ghana -- Republic of Ghana A UN member state A None Greece -- Hellenic Republic A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Mount Athos is an autonomous part of Greece that is jointly governed by the multinational `` Holy Community '' on the mountain and a civil governor appointed by the Greek government . Grenada A UN member state A None Grenada is a Commonwealth realm . Guatemala -- Republic of Guatemala A UN member state A None Guinea -- Republic of Guinea A UN member state A None Guinea - Bissau -- Republic of Guinea - Bissau A UN member state A None Guyana -- Co-operative Republic of Guyana A UN member state A None Haiti -- Republic of Haiti A UN member state A None Holy See → Vatican City A UN member state A None Honduras -- Republic of Honduras A UN member state A None Hungary A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Iceland A UN member state A None India -- Republic of India A UN member state A None India is a federation of 29 states and seven union territories . India claims the entire territory of Kashmir as one of its states , but only exercises control over part of it , while the rest is controlled by the People 's Republic of China and Pakistan . Indonesia -- Republic of Indonesia A UN member state A None Indonesia has five provinces with official special autonomy status : Aceh , Jakarta SCR , Yogyakarta SR , Papua , and West Papua . Iran -- Islamic Republic of Iran A UN member state A None Iraq -- Republic of Iraq A UN member state A None Iraq is a federation of 19 governorates , five of which make up the autonomous Iraqi Kurdistan . Ireland A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Israel -- State of Israel A UN member state Partially unrecognized Israel exerts strong control over the territory claimed by Palestine . Israel annexed East Jerusalem , an annexation not recognised by the international community . Israel maintains varying levels of control over the rest of the West Bank , and although Israel no longer has a permanent civilian or military presence in the Gaza Strip , following its unilateral disengagement , it is still considered by some to be the occupying power under international law . Israel is not recognised as a state by 32 UN members ( including most Arab states ) nor by the SADR . Italy -- Italian Republic A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Italy has 5 autonomous regions ( officially `` special status regions '' ) : Aosta Valley Friuli - Venezia Giulia Sardinia Sicily Trentino - Alto Adige / Südtirol Ivory Coast -- Republic of Côte d'Ivoire A UN member state A None Jamaica A UN member state A None Jamaica is a Commonwealth realm . Japan A UN member state A None Jordan -- Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan A UN member state A None Kazakhstan -- Republic of Kazakhstan A UN member state A None Kenya -- Republic of Kenya A UN member state A None Kiribati -- Republic of Kiribati A UN member state A None Korea , North -- Democratic People 's Republic of Korea A UN member state B Claimed by Georgia Claimed by North Korea Claimed by Serbia Claimed by Somalia Claimed by the People 's Republic of China Claimed by the Republic of China Claimed by South Korea Claimed by Azerbaijan Claimed by the Republic of Cyprus Disputed by Israel Claimed by Morocco Claimed by Moldova Claimed by Mali Claimed by Spain North Korea is not recognised by three UN members : France , Japan and South Korea . Korea , South -- Republic of Korea A UN member state B Claimed by Georgia Claimed by North Korea Claimed by Serbia Claimed by Somalia Claimed by the People 's Republic of China Claimed by the Republic of China Claimed by South Korea Claimed by Azerbaijan Claimed by the Republic of Cyprus Disputed by Israel Claimed by Morocco Claimed by Moldova Claimed by Mali Claimed by Spain South Korea has 1 autonomous region : Jejudo South Korea is not recognised by one UN member : North Korea . ZZZ Kosovo → Kosovo A UN member state A None Kuwait -- State of Kuwait A UN member state A None Kyrgyzstan -- Kyrgyz Republic A UN member state A None Laos -- Lao People 's Democratic Republic A UN member state A None Latvia -- Republic of Latvia A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Lebanon -- Lebanese Republic A UN member state A None Lesotho -- Kingdom of Lesotho A UN member state A None Liberia -- Republic of Liberia A UN member state A None Libya A UN member state A None Liechtenstein -- Principality of Liechtenstein A UN member state A None Lithuania -- Republic of Lithuania A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Luxembourg -- Grand Duchy of Luxembourg A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Macedonia -- Republic of Macedonia A UN member state A None Because of the Macedonia naming dispute , the country is referred to by the UN and a number of states and international organizations as `` the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia '' . Madagascar -- Republic of Madagascar A UN member state A None Malawi -- Republic of Malawi A UN member state A None Malaysia A UN member state A None Malaysia is a federation of 13 states and three federal territories . Maldives -- Republic of Maldives A UN member state A None Mali -- Republic of Mali A UN member state A None Malta -- Republic of Malta A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Marshall Islands -- Republic of the Marshall Islands A UN member state A None Under Compact of Free Association with the United States . Mauritania -- Islamic Republic of Mauritania A UN member state A None Mauritius -- Republic of Mauritius A UN member state A None Mauritius has an autonomous island , Rodrigues . Mexico -- United Mexican States A UN member state A None Mexico is a federation of 31 states and one autonomous city . Micronesia -- Federated States of Micronesia A UN member state A None Under Compact of Free Association with the United States . The Federated States of Micronesia is a federation of four states . Moldova -- Republic of Moldova A UN member state A None Moldova has the autonomous regions of Gagauzia and Transnistria , the latter of which has established a de facto state . Monaco -- Principality of Monaco A UN member state A None Mongolia A UN member state A None Montenegro A UN member state A None Morocco -- Kingdom of Morocco A UN member state A None Morocco claims sovereignty over Western Sahara and controls most of it , which is disputed by the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic . Mozambique -- Republic of Mozambique A UN member state A None Myanmar -- Republic of the Union of Myanmar A UN member state A None ZZZ Nagorno - Karabakh → Artsakh A UN member state A None Namibia -- Republic of Namibia A UN member state A None Nauru -- Republic of Nauru A UN member state A None Nepal -- Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal A UN member state A None Nepal is a federation composed of 14 zones . Netherlands -- Kingdom of the Netherlands A UN member state A None Member of the EU . The Kingdom of the Netherlands includes four areas with substantial autonomy : Aruba Curaçao Netherlands Sint Maarten The continental part of the Netherlands , Aruba , Curaçao , and Sint Maarten form the four constituent countries of the Kingdom . Three other territories ( Bonaire , Saba , and Sint Eustatius ) are special municipalities of the continental Netherlands . The designation `` Netherlands '' can refer either to the continental Netherlands or to the short name for the entire Kingdom ( e.g. in international organizations ) . The Kingdom of the Netherlands as a whole is a member of the EU , but EU law applies only to parts within Europe . New Zealand A UN member state A None New Zealand is a Commonwealth realm , and has the dependent territories of : Ross Dependency Tokelau New Zealand has responsibilities for ( but no rights of control over ) two freely associated states : Cook Islands Niue The Cook Islands and Niue have diplomatic relations with 46 and 18 UN members respectively . They have full treaty - making capacity in the UN , and are members of some UN specialized agencies . Nicaragua -- Republic of Nicaragua A UN member state A None Nicaragua contains two autonomous regions , Atlántico Sur and Atlántico Norte . Niger -- Republic of Niger A UN member state A None Nigeria -- Federal Republic of Nigeria A UN member state A None Nigeria is a federation of 36 states and 1 federal territory . ZZZ Niue → Niue A UN member state A None ZZZ Northern Cyprus → Northern Cyprus A UN member state A None North Korea → Korea , North A UN member state A None Norway -- Kingdom of Norway A UN member state A None Svalbard is an integral part of Norway , but has a special status due to the Svalbard Treaty . Jan Mayen is an island that is an integral part of Norway , although unincorporated . Norway has the dependent territories of : Bouvet Island Peter I Island Queen Maud Land Oman -- Sultanate of Oman A UN member state A None Pakistan -- Islamic Republic of Pakistan A UN member state A None Pakistan is a federation of four provinces , 1 capital territory , and tribal regions . Pakistan disputes the entire territory of Kashmir with India , and part of it with the People 's Republic of China . It exercises control over certain portions of Kashmir , but has not officially annexed any of it , instead regarding it as a disputed territory . The portions that it controls are divided into two territories , administered separately from Pakistan proper : Azad Kashmir Gilgit Baltistan Azad Kashmir describes itself as a `` self - governing state under Pakistani control '' , while Gilgit - Baltistan is described in its governance order as a group of `` areas '' with self - government . These territories are not usually regarded as sovereign , as they do not fulfill the criteria set out by the declarative theory of statehood ( for example , their current laws do not allow them to engage independently in relations with other states ) . Several state functions of these territories ( such as foreign affairs and defence ) are performed by Pakistan . Palau -- Republic of Palau A UN member state A None Under Compact of Free Association with the United States . Palestine -- State of Palestine A UN observer state ; member of one UN specialized agency Partially unrecognized . B Claimed by Georgia Claimed by North Korea Claimed by Serbia Claimed by Somalia Claimed by the People 's Republic of China Claimed by the Republic of China Claimed by South Korea Claimed by Azerbaijan Claimed by the Republic of Cyprus Disputed by Israel Claimed by Morocco Claimed by Moldova Claimed by Mali Claimed by Spain The declared State of Palestine has received diplomatic recognition from 136 states . The proclaimed state has no agreed territorial borders , or effective control on much of the territory that it proclaimed . The Palestinian National Authority is an interim administrative body formed as a result of the Oslo Accords that exercises limited autonomous jurisdiction within the Palestinian territories . In foreign relations , Palestine is represented by the Palestine Liberation Organization . The State of Palestine is a member state of UNESCO , and an observer state in the UN . Panama -- Republic of Panama A UN member state A None Papua New Guinea -- Independent State of Papua New Guinea A UN member state A None Papua New Guinea is a Commonwealth realm with 1 autonomous region , Bougainville . Paraguay -- Republic of Paraguay A UN member state A None Peru -- Republic of Peru A UN member state A None Philippines -- Republic of the Philippines A UN member state A None The Philippines contains one autonomous region , Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao . Poland -- Republic of Poland A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Portugal -- Portuguese Republic A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Portugal contains two autonomous regions , Azores and Madeira . Pridnestrovie → Transnistria A UN member state A None Qatar -- State of Qatar A UN member state A None Republic of Korea → Korea , South A UN member state A None Republic of the Congo → Congo , Republic of the A UN member state A None Romania A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Russia -- Russian Federation A UN member state A None Russia is officially a federation of 85 federal subjects ( republics , oblasts , krais , autonomous okrugs , federal cities , and an autonomous oblast ) . Several of the federal subjects are ethnic republics . Russia also forms the Union State jointly with Belarus . Rwanda -- Republic of Rwanda A UN member state A None ZZZ Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic → Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic A UN member state A None Saint Kitts and Nevis -- Federation of Saint Christopher and Nevis A UN member state A None Saint Kitts and Nevis is a Commonwealth realm and is a federation of two islands , St. Kitts and Nevis . Saint Lucia A UN member state A None Saint Lucia is a Commonwealth realm . Saint Vincent and the Grenadines A UN member state A None Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is a Commonwealth realm . Samoa -- Independent State of Samoa A UN member state A None San Marino -- Republic of San Marino A UN member state A None São Tomé and Príncipe -- Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe A UN member state A None São Tomé and Príncipe contains 1 autonomous province , Príncipe . Saudi Arabia -- Kingdom of Saudi Arabia A UN member state A None Senegal -- Republic of Senegal A UN member state A None Serbia -- Republic of Serbia A UN member state A None Serbia contains two autonomous regions , Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija . The latter is under the de facto control of the Republic of Kosovo . Seychelles -- Republic of Seychelles A UN member state A None Sierra Leone -- Republic of Sierra Leone A UN member state A None Singapore -- Republic of Singapore A UN member state A None Slovakia -- Slovak Republic A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Slovenia -- Republic of Slovenia A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Solomon Islands A UN member state A None The Solomon Islands is a Commonwealth realm . Somalia -- Federal Republic of Somalia A UN member state A None Somalia has two self - declared autonomous regions : Puntland and Galmudug , while the territory of Somaliland has formed an unrecognised de facto state . ZZZ Somaliland → Somaliland A UN member state A None South Africa -- Republic of South Africa A UN member state A None South Korea → Korea , South A UN member state A None ZZZ South Ossetia → South Ossetia A UN member state A None South Sudan -- Republic of South Sudan A UN member state A None South Sudan is a federation of 28 states . The Abyei Area is a zone with `` special administrative status '' established by the Comprehensive Peace Agreement in 2005 . It is de-jure a condominium of South Sudan and Sudan , but de facto administered by South Sudan . Spain -- Kingdom of Spain A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Spain is divided into 17 autonomous communities and 2 special autonomous cities . Sri Lanka -- Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka A UN member state A None Sudan -- Republic of the Sudan A UN member state A None Sudan is a federation of 18 states . Sudan claims the Abyei Area , which is currently under UN protection and governed by South Sudan . ZZZ Sudan , South → South Sudan A UN member state A None Suriname -- Republic of Suriname A UN member state A None Swaziland -- Kingdom of eSwatini A UN member state A None Sweden -- Kingdom of Sweden A UN member state A None Member of the EU . Switzerland -- Swiss Confederation A UN member state A None Switzerland is a federation of 26 cantons . Syria -- Syrian Arab Republic A UN member state A None The Syrian National Coalition , which is recognized as the legitimate representative of the Syrian people by 20 UN members , has established an interim government to rule rebel controlled territory during the Syrian civil war . Syria has one self - declared autonomous region : Rojava . ZZZ Taiwan ( Republic of China ) → Taiwan A UN member state A None Tajikistan -- Republic of Tajikistan A UN member state A None Tajikistan contains 1 autonomous region , Gorno - Badakhshan Autonomous Province . Tanzania -- United Republic of Tanzania A UN member state A None Tanzania contains 1 autonomous region , Zanzibar . Thailand -- Kingdom of Thailand A UN member state A None The Bahamas → Bahamas , The A UN member state A None The Gambia → Gambia , The A UN member state A None Timor - Leste → East Timor A UN member state A None Togo -- Togolese Republic A UN member state A None Tonga -- Kingdom of Tonga A UN member state A None ZZZ Transnistria → Transnistria A UN member state A None Trinidad and Tobago -- Republic of Trinidad and Tobago A UN member state A None Trinidad and Tobago contains 1 autonomous region , Tobago . Tunisia -- Tunisian Republic A UN member state A None Turkey -- Republic of Turkey A UN member state A None Turkmenistan A UN member state A None Tuvalu A UN member state A None Tuvalu is a Commonwealth realm . Uganda -- Republic of Uganda A UN member state A None Ukraine A UN member state A None Ukraine contains an autonomous republic , Crimea . In 2014 Russia annexed the region along with Sevastopol turning them in one of its federal subjects as Republic of Crimea and city of Sevastopol . United Arab Emirates A UN member state A None The United Arab Emirates is a federation of seven emirates . United Kingdom -- United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland A UN member state A None Member of the EU . The United Kingdom is a Commonwealth realm consisting of four constituent countries : England , Northern Ireland , Scotland , and Wales . The United Kingdom has the following overseas territories : Akrotiri and Dhekelia Anguilla Bermuda British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Cayman Islands Falkland Islands Gibraltar Montserrat Pitcairn Islands Saint Helena , Ascension and Tristan da Cunha South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Turks and Caicos Islands British Antarctic Territory The British monarch has direct sovereignty over three self - governing Crown dependencies : Guernsey Isle of Man Jersey United States -- United States of America A UN member state A None The United States is a federation of 50 states and 1 federal district . The United States has sovereignty over the following inhabited possessions and commonwealths : American Samoa Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico U.S. Virgin Islands It also has sovereignty over several uninhabited territories : Baker Island Howland Island Jarvis Island Johnston Atoll Kingman Reef Midway Atoll Navassa Island Wake Island It also has sovereignty over the following incorporated territories : Palmyra Atoll Three sovereign states have become associated states of the United States under the Compact of Free Association : Marshall Islands -- Republic of the Marshall Islands Micronesia -- Federated States of Micronesia Palau -- Republic of Palau It also disputes sovereignty over the following territories : Bajo Nuevo Bank Serranilla Bank Uruguay -- Oriental Republic of Uruguay A UN member state A None Uzbekistan -- Republic of Uzbekistan A UN member state A None Uzbekistan contains 1 autonomous region , Karakalpakstan . Vanuatu -- Republic of Vanuatu A UN member state A None Vatican City -- Vatican City State A UN observer state under the designation of `` Holy See '' ; member of three UN specialized agencies and the IAEA A None Administered by the Holy See , a sovereign entity with diplomatic ties to 183 states -- 180 UN member states , one UN observer state ( Palestine ) , the Cook Islands and the Republic of China ( Taiwan ) . The Holy See is a member of the IAEA , ITU , UPU , and WIPO and a permanent observer of the UN ( in the category of `` Non-member State '' ) and multiple other UN System organizations . The Vatican City is governed by officials appointed by the Pope , who is the Bishop of the Diocese of Rome and ex officio sovereign of Vatican City . Venezuela -- Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela A UN member state A None Venezuela is a federation of 23 states , 1 capital district , and federal dependencies . Vietnam -- Socialist Republic of Vietnam A UN member state A None Yemen -- Republic of Yemen A UN member state A None Zambia -- Republic of Zambia A UN member state A None Zimbabwe -- Republic of Zimbabwe A UN member state A None ZZZ ↑ UN member states and observer states ↑ A ZZZ ZZZ ZZZ AB ZZZ ↓ Other states ↓ D AAA ZZZ Abkhazia -- Republic of Abkhazia D No membership B Claimed by Georgia Claimed by North Korea Claimed by Serbia Claimed by Somalia Claimed by the People 's Republic of China Claimed by the Republic of China Claimed by South Korea Claimed by Azerbaijan Claimed by the Republic of Cyprus Disputed by Israel Claimed by Morocco Claimed by Moldova Claimed by Mali Claimed by Spain Recognised by Russia , Nauru , Nicaragua , Venezuela , Artsakh , South Ossetia and Transnistria . Claimed in whole by Georgia as the Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia . Artsakh -- Republic of Artsakh D No membership B Claimed by Georgia Claimed by North Korea Claimed by Serbia Claimed by Somalia Claimed by the People 's Republic of China Claimed by the Republic of China Claimed by South Korea Claimed by Azerbaijan Claimed by the Republic of Cyprus Disputed by Israel Claimed by Morocco Claimed by Moldova Claimed by Mali Claimed by Spain A de facto independent state , recognized only by Abkhazia , South Ossetia and Transnistria . Claimed in whole by Azerbaijan . Cook Islands D Member of eight UN specialized agencies A None ( See political status ) A state in free association with New Zealand , the Cook Islands maintains diplomatic relations with 49 states . The Cook Islands is a member of multiple UN agencies with full treaty making capacity . It shares a head of state with New Zealand as well as having shared citizenship . Kosovo -- Republic of Kosovo D Member of two UN specialized agencies B Claimed by Georgia Claimed by North Korea Claimed by Serbia Claimed by Somalia Claimed by the People 's Republic of China Claimed by the Republic of China Claimed by South Korea Claimed by Azerbaijan Claimed by the Republic of Cyprus Disputed by Israel Claimed by Morocco Claimed by Moldova Claimed by Mali Claimed by Spain Pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 , Kosovo was placed under the administration of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo in 1999 . Kosovo declared independence in 2008 , and it has received diplomatic recognition from 113 UN member states and the Republic of China . Serbia continues to maintain its sovereignty claim over Kosovo . Other UN member states and non UN member states continue to recognise Serbian sovereignty or have taken no position on the question . Kosovo is a member of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank Group . The Republic of Kosovo has de facto control over most of the territory , with limited control in North Kosovo . Niue D Member of five UN specialized agencies A None ( See political status ) A state in free association with New Zealand , Niue maintains diplomatic relations with 20 states . Niue is a member of multiple UN agencies with full treaty making capacity . It shares a head of state with New Zealand as well as having shared citizenship . Northern Cyprus -- Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus D No membership B Claimed by Georgia Claimed by North Korea Claimed by Serbia Claimed by Somalia Claimed by the People 's Republic of China Claimed by the Republic of China Claimed by South Korea Claimed by Azerbaijan Claimed by the Republic of Cyprus Disputed by Israel Claimed by Morocco Claimed by Moldova Claimed by Mali Claimed by Spain Recognised only by Turkey . Under the name `` Turkish Cypriot State '' , it is an observer state of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the Economic Cooperation Organization . Northern Cyprus is claimed in whole by the Republic of Cyprus . Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic D No membership B Claimed by Georgia Claimed by North Korea Claimed by Serbia Claimed by Somalia Claimed by the People 's Republic of China Claimed by the Republic of China Claimed by South Korea Claimed by Azerbaijan Claimed by the Republic of Cyprus Disputed by Israel Claimed by Morocco Claimed by Moldova Claimed by Mali Claimed by Spain Recognised at some stage by 84 UN member states , 39 of which have since withdrawn or frozen their recognition . It is a founding member of the African Union and the Asian -- African Strategic Partnership formed at the 2005 Asian -- African Conference . The territories under its control , the so - called Free Zone , are claimed in whole by Morocco as part of its Southern Provinces . In turn , the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic claims the part of Western Sahara to the west of the Moroccan Wall controlled by Morocco . Its government resides in exile in Tindouf , Algeria . Somaliland -- Republic of Somaliland D No membership B Claimed by Georgia Claimed by North Korea Claimed by Serbia Claimed by Somalia Claimed by the People 's Republic of China Claimed by the Republic of China Claimed by South Korea Claimed by Azerbaijan Claimed by the Republic of Cyprus Disputed by Israel Claimed by Morocco Claimed by Moldova Claimed by Mali Claimed by Spain A de facto independent state , not diplomatically recognised by any other state , claimed in whole by the Federal Republic of Somalia . South Ossetia -- Republic of South Ossetia D No membership B Claimed by Georgia Claimed by North Korea Claimed by Serbia Claimed by Somalia Claimed by the People 's Republic of China Claimed by the Republic of China Claimed by South Korea Claimed by Azerbaijan Claimed by the Republic of Cyprus Disputed by Israel Claimed by Morocco Claimed by Moldova Claimed by Mali Claimed by Spain A de facto independent state , recognised by Russia , Nicaragua , Nauru , Venezuela , Abkhazia , Artsakh and Transnistria . Claimed in whole by Georgia as the Provisional Administrative Entity of South Ossetia . Taiwan -- Republic of China DFormer UN member ( as Republic of China , 1945 -- 1971 ) Observer in one UN specialized agency under the name `` Chinese Taipei '' B Claimed by Georgia Claimed by North Korea Claimed by Serbia Claimed by Somalia Claimed by the People 's Republic of China Claimed by the Republic of China Claimed by South Korea Claimed by Azerbaijan Claimed by the Republic of Cyprus Disputed by Israel Claimed by Morocco Claimed by Moldova Claimed by Mali Claimed by Spain A state competing ( nominally ) for recognition with the People 's Republic of China ( PRC ) as the government of China since 1949 . The Republic of China ( ROC ) controls the island of Taiwan and associated islands , Quemoy , Matsu , the Pratas and parts of the Spratly Islands , and has not renounced claims over its annexed territories on the mainland . The ROC is recognised by 19 UN member states and the Holy See as of 13 June 2017 . All these states do not recognise the PRC either . Additionally , one UN member ( Bhutan ) has refrained from recognising either the ROC or the PRC . The territory of the ROC is claimed in whole by the PRC . The ROC participates in international organizations under a variety of pseudonyms , most commonly `` Chinese Taipei '' and in the WTO it has full membership . The ROC was a founding member of the UN and enjoyed membership from 1945 to 1971 , with veto power in the UN Security Council . See China and the United Nations . Transnistria -- Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic D No membership B Claimed by Georgia Claimed by North Korea Claimed by Serbia Claimed by Somalia Claimed by the People 's Republic of China Claimed by the Republic of China Claimed by South Korea Claimed by Azerbaijan Claimed by the Republic of Cyprus Disputed by Israel Claimed by Morocco Claimed by Moldova Claimed by Mali Claimed by Spain A de facto independent state , recognised only by Abkhazia , Artsakh and South Ossetia . Claimed in whole by Moldova as the Transnistria autonomous territorial unit . ZZZ ↑ Other states ↑ D ZZZ ZZZ ZZZZ ZZZZ ZZZZ