Daenerys Targaryen ( season 1 -- present ) portrayed by Emilia Clarke . Daenerys Targaryen is the exiled princess of the Targaryen dynasty . Also called `` the Stormborn '' , she and her brother Viserys were smuggled to Essos during the end of Robert 's Rebellion . For seventeen years , she has been under the care of Viserys , whom she fears , as he is abusive to her whenever she displeases him . In exchange for an army , Viserys marries her to the powerful Dothraki warlord Khal Drogo , making her a Khaleesi , a queen of the Dothraki . Daenerys is at first afraid of her new husband but after learning the Dothraki language , she manages to get past their barriers . She begins to understand him and genuinely falls in love with him after learning Drogo is an intelligent leader and a kind man . After embracing the Dothraki culture , she becomes stronger and rebels against her brother . She later becomes pregnant with Drogo 's son who is prophesied by the Dothraki to be the `` Stallion Who Mounts the World '' . After her brother 's death and an assassination attempt by Robert Baratheon , Drogo vows to Daenerys that he will conquer the Seven Kingdoms for her and their unborn son . However , during their journey Drogo suffers from blood poisoning due to an infected wound incurred during a fight with a Dothraki tribesman . Daenerys is forced to seek the help of healer Mirri Maz Duur to save his life using blood magic . Mirri tricks Daenerys by using her unborn son 's life as a sacrifice to heal Drogo , leaving him in a permanent catatonic state , and forcing Daenerys to end her husband 's life . Losing both her husband and son , Daenerys punishes Mirri by having her burnt at the stake . She also lays the three dragon eggs she received as a wedding gift onto Khal Drogo 's body , then steps into the burning funeral pyre . After the fire extinguishes itself , the Khaleesi and three baby dragons , named Drogon , Rhaegal , and Viserion , are found alive and unharmed . Daenerys takes the baby dragons and the remaining tribe to gather new allies and reclaim the Iron Throne . She becomes the first female Dothraki leader . In Season 2 , she is lost in the Red Waste , a stretch of barren land . She and her khalasar eventually make it to Qarth , where the nobles are more interested in her dragons than her conquering Westeros . When her dragons are stolen by Pyat Pree , she goes into the House of the Undying and retrieves them , killing Pyat Pree . In the second season 's finale , she imprisons her host Xaro Xoan Daxos for having helped Pyat Pree . Her horde loot Xaro 's mansion to buy a ship . Daenerys travels from Qarth to Astapor , a city in Slaver 's Bay , where she negotiates the purchase of elite eunuch soldiers called the Unsullied . She also meets the famed knight Ser Barristan Selmy , and accepts him into her queensguard . On her departure from the city , she frees the slaves and has Drogon torch its elders . By the end of Season 3 , although her power has not yet been tested , she has acquired the loyalty of tens of thousands of freed slaves from Astapor and Yunkai , her remaining Dothraki brethren ( and two former Westerosi soldiers whom she encountered through the Dothraki , who advise her ) 2,000 ' Second Sons ' cavalrymen , 8,000 ' Unsullied ' elite infantry , and three rapidly growing dragons . The stay in Slaver 's Bay has made her question her motives , however , and she takes up the cause of ending slavery as well , donning the honorific `` Breaker of Chains '' as the slaves hold her to the sky , praising her as their Mhysa , or `` Mother '' . Daenerys later frees the slaves from Meereen , the last of the slave cities in Slaver 's Bay , but realizes that she is slowly losing control of her dragons , especially when Drogon shows signs of aggression towards her when she tries to break up a fight between them over food . Aware that she does not have enough men to conquer Westeros just yet , Daenerys resolves to remain in Slaver 's Bay and rule as Queen for the time being . She eventually learns of Jorah 's original purpose , which was to spy on her for Robert Baratheon , and orders him to leave Meereen on threat of execution . After she receives too many complaints about her dragons , Daenerys , locks Rhaegal and Viserion of them in the catacombs beneath Meereen before searching for Drogon . Meanwhile , Daenerys faces a new threat to her rule in the form of the Sons of the Harpy , a resistance movement against her and the Unsullied . She considers freeing her dragons , but they attempt to attack her , making her realize that they are no longer loyal to her . After Daario and Grey Worm arrest a member of the Sons of the Harpy , Mossador implores Daenerys to execute their captive , but Barristan tells her of the Mad King 's actions against his enemies , which included burning them with wildfire while laughing . He asks her not to execute the captive without a fair trial , and she agrees with him . Mossador goes against her wishes , and kills the captive Son of the Harpy . Daenerys has him publicly executed , which leads a riot to break out between the old masters and the freed slaves . At night , Daenerys finds that Drogon has returned , but when she tries to touch his face , he flies away . Soon afterward , a group of Unsullied patrolling the streets of Meereen are stopped by a crying woman who points them to an alleyway . The Unsullied head in to investigate , but it is revealed that the entire affair was a set up after they are soon cornered by a group of the Sons of the Harpy . The Unsullied attempt to fight back , but the Sons of the Harpy kill many of them . Barristan Selmy sees the commotion and tries to help , killing many of the Sons of the Harpy , but gets badly wounded , and dies . Grey Worm also sustains serious but nonfatal injuries . Daenerys is furious after learning what has happened to Barristan , and rounds up the leaders of the great Meereenese houses . She takes them into the catacombs where she randomly has one of them shoved forward . The Meereenese lord is promptly killed by dragonfire from Rhaegal , and he and Viserion eat him . Daenerys then has all the lords arrested , including her former adviser Hizdahr zo Loraq , whom she decides to marry to win over the Meereenese nobles . To respect the culture of the region , she agrees to have the fighting pits reinstated ( she had previously declined due to her distaste for killing for sport ) . Hizdahr convinces Daenerys to go to one of the pits to see the contestants battling over who will go to the final competition . Daenerys is sickened by the bloodshed , and gets up to leave , but her attention is turned by one masked competitor who defeats all of the other competitors without killing any of them . This competitor turns out to be Jorah Mormont , who is trying to win over Daenerys ' favor after being banished . Daenerys orders the Unsullied to take him away , but Jorah announces that he has brought her a gift , and Tyrion Lannister reveals himself to Daenerys . After a round of questioning , Daenerys banishes Jorah once again , but takes Tyrion on as her adviser . On the great opening of Daznak 's Pit , Jorah resurfaces as a voluntary contender on the arena , but Daenerys refuses to stop the games to spare his life . Jorah eventually prevails and saves her life by impaling with his spear an attacker from the Sons of the Harpy , who appear in legions and attack Daenerys ' guards . Cornered at the midst of the arena , defeat seems immediate when Drogon returns , killing many Sons of the Harpy despite being wounded by several of their spears . Daenerys manages to rekindle their bond and climbs his back , riding off into the distance to a stunned crowd . She roams the Great Steppe north of the city , where Drogon seems reluctant to obey her commands or even hunt for food . Strolling about on her own , Daenerys is faced with an incoming Dothraki khalasar of great numbers , and after dropping a ring to the ground to leave a trail , she is surrounded . In season 6 , the Dothraki take her to Vaes Dothrak , where she identifies herself to Khal Moro as Drogo 's former wife . Out of respect for Dothraki traditions , they take Daenerys to join the Dosh Khaleen , which consisted of the wives of deceased khals . Daenerys refuses and instead burns the temple down with herself and all the khals still inside . She emerges unscathed , and the awed Dothraki accept her as their new leader . She returns to Meereen with her new army and destroys the slaver fleet assaulting the city with her dragons . In the aftermath , Daenerys meets with Theon and Yara Greyjoy , who offer their support for her claim so that they can overthrow their uncle Euron . Daenerys accepts their aid and secures help from the Reach and Dorne , names Tyrion as her hand , but breaks up with Daario , ordering him to stay behind and govern Slaver 's Bay in her absence . With her new army , Daenerys finally sets sail for Westeros . In Season 7 Daenerys finally uses her dragons in battle , annihilating a Lannister force and their baggage train with fire . Daenerys welcomes Jon Snow to Dragonstone , seeing him as a friend and ally , insisting that he bend the knee to her but exhibiting patience with his refusal . She believes his tales of white walkers and agrees to let him mine dragonglass ( obsidian ) from her land . When Jon 's expedition north of the Wall gets into trouble Daenerys takes her dragons to rescue them , and is devastated when the Night King kills one . On the ship back to Dragonstone she and Jon make love .