Brienne of Tarth ( season 2 -- present ) portrayed by Gwendoline Christie . A former member of Renly Baratheon 's Kingsguard . She is a highly trained and skilled warrior made dangerous by the fact that men underestimate her . She is considered ugly because she is abnormally large in height and build , androgynous , and stronger than most men . She wishes to prove her valor in a worthy cause to win respect and acceptance . She becomes infatuated with Renly after he shows her kindness and courtesy , and she wins a place in his Kingsguard after winning a tournament melee against Ser Loras . Renly trusts Brienne because of her loyalty and her willingness to die for him . She is present at Renly 's death and is falsely accused of his murder . She flees with Catelyn Stark and enters her service . Later Catelyn decides to release Jaime Lannister in exchange for her daughters Sansa and Arya , Brienne is sent to protect Jaime on the journey and to escort the Stark girls back . On the journey back to King 's Landing , both are captured by the violent Roose Bolton , who holds them at Harrenhal . While there , Brienne learns the truth behind Jaime 's murder of the Mad King , but is forced to stay behind while Bolton 's men accompany Jaime back to King 's Landing , although Jaime rescues Brienne from Harrenhal upon learning that Bolton 's unruly henchman , Locke , intends to feed her to his bear . Brienne succeeds in getting Jaime home safely . In Season 4 , Brienne remains in King 's Landing sworn to Jaime , and tensions arise between them again when Jaime refuses to uphold his promise to return Arya and Sansa to Catelyn , on the basis that Catelyn is dead , Arya is missing and Sansa is married to Tyrion . Brienne is later present at Joffrey and Margaery 's wedding , where Cersei implies that Brienne has fallen in love with Jaime , an accusation she answers with silence . Brienne is eventually sent on a mission by Jaime to find and protect Sansa . Jaime provides her with Joffrey 's sword , which she names `` Oathkeeper '' , new armour and Podrick Payne to serve as her new squire . As she leaves , she almost breaks down in tears , and looks back at Jaime while on her horse , which causes Jaime to realise her feelings for him . On the way , Brienne and Podrick stop at an inn and meet Hot Pie , who tells them that Arya Stark may still be alive . They eventually find Arya and Sandor `` The Hound '' Clegane near the Vale . Brienne and Arya initially bond over both being women who prefer to fight , but her sword causes Arya and Sandor to believe she may be a Lannister agent after the bounty on Sandor 's head . A fight ensues between Brienne and Sandor , in which Sandor injures Brienne , but Brienne manages to bite Sandor 's ear off and hit him off a cliff to his apparent death . Arya disappears during the fight , and Brienne and Podrick set out to search for her , though she is visibly distraught that Arya refused her help . Brienne and Podrick stop at an inn . While eating , Podrick sees Sansa and Petyr Baelish eating in the back of the inn , guarded by knights . Brienne orders Podrick to secure more horses , and then moves toward Petyr and Sansa . After Petyr allows her to approach , Brienne pledges her life to Sansa . When Petyr accuses her of Renly Baratheon 's murder , Brienne explains that Renly was killed by a shadow with Stannis 's face . Sansa tells Brienne that she does n't want her protection , and asks her to leave . Petyr attempts to have his guards take Brienne into their custody , but she flees with Podrick , stealing a horse and releasing several others . The guards give chase , and Brienne and Podrick are separated . After evading her pursuers , Brienne sees Sansa and Petyr fleeing . She searches for Podrick , and saves him from two of the knights . Podrick suggests that they stop pursuing Sansa as she refused their help , but Brienne is adamant that she will not be safe with Lord Baelish . She follows the couple to Moat Cailin and then to Winterfell , where she watches the high tower from a village outside , with Sansa promised escape if she lights a candle in the highest tower . As Stannis Baratheon 's army approaches , Sansa lights the candle and Brienne prepares to get her , only to find Stannis gravely wounded on the battlefield . She asks him for the truth about Renly 's death , to which he confesses guilt , and executes him with her sword . Shortly afterwards , she and Podrick rescue Sansa and Theon Greyjoy after they flee Winterfell , and Sansa accepts Brienne into her service . She takes her to Jon Snow at Castle Black , but later heads to the Riverlands to recruit Brynden Tully 's help in for Jon and Sansa to retake Winterfell from Ramsay , but is unsuccessful . She also shares an uneasy reunion with Jaime in the process . When Riverrun falls , Brienne escapes with Podrick in a boat . Back at Winterfell in season 7 , Brienne meets Arya again . Arya demands that Brienne spar with her , and Brienne soon finds that she can not easily beat Arya , who manages to point a sword at her throat . Brienne is sent by Sansa to the parley at the Dragonpit , where she meets The Hound , who she thought she had killed ...