Iceland -- Although Iceland confirmed provisional participation in the 2019 contest , 23,000 Icelanders signed a petition calling on the Icelandic national broadcaster Ríkisútvarpið ( RÚV ) to boycott the event . Icelandic musician Daði Freyr stated that he would no longer participate in the Icelandic national selection Söngvakeppnin and called upon RÚV to boycott the event , tweeting `` We ca n't imagine taking part in the fun that is Eurovision with a clear conscience while the Israeli state and their army use such terrible violence against the Palestinian people . '' It was then announced that RÚV would stage a meeting deciding if they would boycott the event , following calls from Icelandic fans . Iceland competed in the 1999 contest . Ireland -- Lord Mayor of Dublin Mícheál Mac Donncha , who is banned from entering Israel due to his support for the BDS movement , stated that Ireland should withdraw from the 2019 contest due to it taking place in Israel . Sinn Féin politician , Lynn Boylan called for a boycott via Twitter ; `` Israel wins Eurovision so let 's make BDS more successful than ever in 2019 '' . MEP Nessa Childers stated `` Jerusalem ? The mind boggles . I thought Tel Aviv '' . Fellow Sinn Féin member Órla Nic Biorna also expressed her discontent . The Irish Alternative called for a boycott . Irish Eurovision winner Charlie McGettigan has also called for RTÉ to boycott the event , stating `` Look , we do n't agree with this , to celebrate while other people are dying . '' Former Irish TV host Mike Murphy has also called for a boycott of the event . Irish television show The Tonight Show aired a segment in regards to Israel 's right to host the contest . On the panel was a range of Irish celebrities all of whom spoke in favour of a boycott . This included members of the public . On 21 June 2018 , sitting Tánaiste Simon Coveney stated that he did not believe a boycott would advance the Palestinian cause , and rejected the idea of Ireland boycotting the 2019 contest on those grounds . Despite his statement the calls for a boycott just got louder . Sinn Féin called on RTÉ to boycott the event . Sweden -- The Left Party of Malmö suggested that Eurovision Song Contest should not take place in Israel , stating : `` It 's absolutely unreasonable for Israel to host this gigantic music contest while the occupation is in progress . We want Israel to be excluded from Eurovision on humanitarian grounds . We can not continue dancing while the persecution of the Palestinian people continues . Boycott Israel now ! '' Sweden confirmed provisional participation in the 2019 contest , and competed in both the 1979 and 1999 contests . United Kingdom -- Some Liberal Democrat party supporters have called upon the party and the UK government to boycott the event , claiming that their participation would condone `` outrageous human rights violations '' . The United Kingdom participated in both the 1979 and 1999 contests , however , participation in 2019 is yet to be announced .