Wisdom is considered the first and the greatest of the gifts . It acts upon both the intellect and the will . According to St. Bernard , it both illumines the mind and instills an attraction to the divine . Adolphe Tanquerey OP explained the difference between the gift of wisdom and that of understanding , `` ... the latter is a view taken by the mind , while the former is an experience undergone by the heart ; one is light , the other love , and so they unite and complete one another . '' Wisdom is the perfection of the theological virtue of charity ; Understanding is a perceptive intuition which illuminates the mind to grasp the truths of faith . It does not involve a comprehensive understanding of the mysteries of faith , but helps a person understand that these mysteries are credible ; compatible with and related to each other ; and not unreasonable . The gift of understanding perfects the theological virtue of faith . Counsel functions as a sort of supernatural intuition , to enable a person to judge promptly and rightly , especially in difficult situations . It perfects the cardinal virtue of prudence . While prudence operates in accord with reason as enlightened by faith , the gift of counsel operates under the guidance of the Holy Spirit to illuminate the will of God . Fortitude is often identified with courage , but Aquinas takes its meaning to also encompass endurance . Joseph J. Rickaby describes it as a willingness to stand up for what is right in the sight of God , even if it means accepting rejection , verbal abuse , or physical harm . The gift of fortitude allows people the firmness of mind that is required both in doing good and in enduring evil . It is the perfection of the cardinal virtue of the same name . Knowledge : The gift of knowledge allows one , as far as is humanly possible , to see things from God 's perspective . It `` allows us to perceive the greatness of God and his love for his creatures '' through creation . Piety accords with reverence . A person with reverence recognizes his total reliance on God and comes before God with humility , trust , and love . Thomas Aquinas says that piety perfects the virtue of religion , which is an aspect of the virtue of justice , in that it accords to God that which is due him . In a series of talks on the Gifts of the Holy Spirit , Pope Francis said that piety is a recognition of `` ... our belonging to God , our deep bond with him , a relationship that gives meaning to our whole life and keeps us resolute , in communion with him , even during the most difficult and troubled moments '' . `` Piety is not mere outward religiosity ; it is that genuine religious spirit which makes us turn to the Father as his children and to grow in our love for others , seeing them as our brothers and sisters , ... '' Fear of the Lord is akin to wonder ( or awe ) : With the gift of fear of the Lord , one is made aware of the glory and majesty of God . At a June 2014 general audience Pope Francis said that it `` is no servile fear , but rather a joyful awareness of God 's grandeur and a grateful realization that only in him do our hearts find true peace '' . A person with wonder and awe knows that God is the perfection of all one desires . This gift is described by Aquinas as a fear of separating oneself from God . He describes the gift as a `` filial fear , '' like a child 's fear of offending his father , rather than a `` servile fear , '' that is , a fear of punishment . Fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom . It is the perfection of the theological virtue of hope .