No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) `` Chapter One : The River 's Edge '' Lee Toland Krieger Roberto Aguirre - Sacasa January 26 , 2017 ( 2017 - 01 - 26 ) T15. 10136 1.38 During an eventful summer , including the tragic death of quarterback Jason Blossom on the Fourth of July , Archie Andrews discovers his passion for music . He soon begins his sophomore year and expresses his love for music to Betty Cooper , the sweet girl - next - door who harbors her own secret -- her feelings for Archie . Meanwhile , Veronica Lodge , the daughter of Hermione and Hiram , a millionaire facing embezzlement charges , arrives in town , instantly capturing Archie 's attention . Despite the fact that a love triangle is developing , Betty and Veronica become fast friends , united when Veronica stands up against the condescending captain of the cheerleading squad , Cheryl Blossom , who may be hiding a secret concerning her brother 's death . Archie 's former best friend , Jughead Jones , begins to write a novel retelling the events of the summer , including what happened between him and Archie . Kevin Keller and Moose Mason stumble across Jason 's body by the lake . `` Chapter Two : A Touch of Evil '' Lee Toland Krieger Roberto Aguirre - Sacasa February 2 , 2017 ( 2017 - 02 - 02 ) T13. 20302 1.15 Veronica 's kiss with Archie strains his relationship with both girls , while Miss Grundy insists that he not reveal that the two of them heard the gunshot that may have killed Jason since it would also expose their secret affair . Kevin , disturbed by the discovery of Jason 's body , refuses to acknowledge Moose 's affections for him . Jughead , after accidentally discovering Archie and Grundy holding hands , deduces their secret and confronts Archie for refusing to go to the sheriff , Kevin 's father . Archie asks his father , Fred , for advice and decides to come clean . Cheryl strikes up a friendship with Betty , but it soon ends when it becomes clear that she blames Betty 's sister , Polly , for Jason 's death . At a pep rally in his honor , Cheryl runs away after hallucinating Jason on the field ; in the locker room , where Veronica has followed to comfort her , Cheryl admits to her that Jason was supposed to `` come back . '' Against the wishes of her mother , Alice , Betty renews her friendship with both Archie and Veronica , while Archie also reconciles with Jughead . The next day , during science class , Cheryl is arrested due to evidence from Jason 's autopsy , which revealed that he was actually murdered a week after the Fourth of July . `` Chapter Three : Body Double '' Lee Toland Krieger Yolonda E. Lawrence February 9 , 2017 ( 2017 - 02 - 09 ) T13. 20303 1.20 Cheryl is questioned by Sheriff Keller about her role in Jason 's death , but she gets bailed out by her parents , Clifford and Penelope . Betty , upset with how Alice is attacking the Blossom family in the press , restarts the school newspaper , The Blue and Gold , and sends Jughead to interview the Adventure Scouts who found Cheryl at Sweet Water River just after Jason died . Veronica is enraged to learn that Chuck Clayton , whom she had one date with , has been slut shaming her to the rest of the school and , when he refuses to stop , she , Betty , and Cheryl find evidence linking him and his friends , including Jason , to the shaming . Jughead learns from one of the Scouts that the shot heard on the Fourth of July was fired by the troop 's Scoutmaster , Dilton Doiley , during a training exercise . Betty and Veronica drug and torture Chuck until he apologizes and Jughead pressures Dilton to come clean . Fred builds Archie a studio in which to practice , Chuck is kicked off the football team , and Betty and Cheryl burn the evidence together . Dilton reveals that he saw Miss Grundy 's car by the river and Jughead realizes Archie 's secret is at risk . `` Chapter Four : The Last Picture Show '' Mark Piznarski Michael Grassi February 16 , 2017 ( 2017 - 02 - 16 ) T13. 20304 1.14 Jughead despairs over the news that the local drive - in where he works is closing and compares Riverdale 's atmosphere of suspicion to that of Salem . At the diner , Betty spots Archie and Fred having dinner with Miss Grundy and she confronts him about their relationship . Under the guise of an interview , Betty questions Miss Grundy about her life , while Veronica demands answers from Hermione upon learning she was speaking to a gangbanger ; Hermione insists that nothing shady happened . Betty and Veronica meet with Archie and inform him that there is no trace of Geraldine Grundy ever existing aside from a woman who died seven years ago . They break into her car and find a gun and ID with the name `` Jennifer Gibson . '' Grundy reveals that she was in an abusive relationship and only wanted to escape . At the drive - in 's final night , Veronica spots Hermione meeting with the same man from before . Alice exposes Archie 's affair and threatens to put Grundy on trial , but agrees to stand down as long as she leaves town . Sheriff Keller finds that all of his evidence pertaining to Jason 's murder has been stolen . Jughead vandalizes the projectionist 's booth before leaving his temporary home in full view of the gang leader , who turns out to be his father . 5 5 `` Chapter Five : Heart of Darkness '' Jesse Warn Ross Maxwell February 23 , 2017 ( 2017 - 02 - 23 ) T13. 20305 0.98 Clifford and Penelope refuse to allow Cheryl to speak at Jason 's memorial , but she does so anyway , ultimately breaking down during her speech while wearing the white dress she had on the day he left . Coach Clayton pits Archie and Reggie against each other for the coveted spot of team captain . Archie is introduced to a potential songwriting mentor , who ultimately decides not to teach him . Trev informs Betty that Jason had become much more secretive in the weeks before his death and was rumored to be selling drugs . Jughead suggests searching the Blossom family mansion for clues during the memorial dinner . He and Betty encounter Jason 's grandmother , Rose , who mistakes Betty for Polly and reveals that she and Jason were engaged . While cleaning the diner , Hermione finds a box with a snake inside it , a warning from the Serpents . Betty learns that her family has hated the Blossoms ever since their ancestor killed great - grandfather Cooper decades before . Archie is named captain , but turns it down to focus on his music . Jughead and Betty deduce that her father , Hal , is responsible for stealing the sheriff 's evidence . 6 6 `` Chapter Six : Faster , Pussycats ! Kill ! Kill ! '' Steven A. Adelson Tessa Leigh Williams & Nicholas Zwart March 2 , 2017 ( 2017 - 03 - 02 ) T13. 20306 1.09 With Riverdale High 's annual variety show approaching , Valerie 's efforts to help Archie prepare for his debut performance lead to a major fallout with Josie . Meanwhile , Betty and Jughead 's investigation into Jason 's murder brings them face - to - face with Betty 's sister Polly , who is revealed to be captive at a home for troubled youth , unaware of Jason 's death and seven months pregnant . As Veronica decides to rebuild her relationship with her mother , she learns that Hermione is using her for her own purposes . At the same time , Hermione 's first day of work at Andrews Construction brings her closer to Fred . Josie deals with her own family pressures after her father visits for her performance at the variety show . Betty confronts Hal and Alice about Jason 's death to no avail , but grows closer to Jughead , eventually kissing him . After , they discover a car hidden in the woods containing drugs and Jason 's belongings . However , an unknown perpetrator torches the car and destroys all the evidence before the police arrive , around the same time that Polly escapes from the home . 7 7 `` Chapter Seven : In a Lonely Place '' Allison Anders Aaron Allen March 9 , 2017 ( 2017 - 03 - 09 ) T13. 20307 1.03 Cheryl informs Sheriff Keller that Polly has escaped and the town organizes a search party to find her , which fails . As tensions continue to grow between the Blossoms and the Coopers , Betty finds her sister hiding in the attic of their house . Cheryl offers to help Betty take care of Polly . F.P. , after being offered a job by Fred , reveals that he and Fred founded Andrews Construction together , but Fred kicked him out of the business after bailing him out of jail . Fred counters that F.P. was stealing money from him while abusing drugs and alcohol and that he had no choice . Jughead is taken into custody as a suspect in Jason 's murder , but Fred provides Keller with an alibi . Cheryl suspects that her parents have bad intentions with Polly , so Polly moves in with the Lodges instead . F.P. is revealed to have Jason 's jacket in his trailer . 8 8 `` Chapter Eight : The Outsiders '' David Katzenberg Julia Cohen March 30 , 2017 ( 2017 - 03 - 30 ) T13. 20308 0.99 Polly reveals to Sheriff Keller that Jason was supposed to make a drug delivery for `` some biker gang '' , implied to be the Southside Serpents , in exchange for money before both of them ran away . Veronica suggests hosting a baby shower for Polly . Fred 's workers leave because of promised work from Clifford . Archie tries to help Fred by getting some friends to work on the construction project , but Moose is attacked after witnessing someone vandalize the machinery and warned they should stop . After a confrontation with F.P. Jones in the Serpents ' bar , Archie realizes Jughead 's father is a Serpent . At the baby shower , Penelope and Alice argue over with whom Polly should live . Alice learns that Hal threatened Polly with an abortion , and when he refuses to let her come back , Alice kicks him out of the Cooper household . F.P. recruits some of his Serpents to replace Fred 's crew and informs Hermione that Hiram was behind the attack on Fred 's construction site . Polly chooses to live with the Blossoms . 9 9 `` Chapter Nine : La Grande Illusion '' Lee Rose James DeWille April 6 , 2017 ( 2017 - 04 - 06 ) T13. 20309 0.91 As the Blossom family 's annual maple tree - tapping ceremony approaches , Cheryl asks Archie to be her escort . When he refuses , Penelope offers to get him into an exclusive music school as a favor . Veronica grows close to Ethel but , when Hermione reveals that her father was one of Hiram 's investors , she becomes distraught upon learning that he attempted suicide due to his financial hardship . Alice prepares to publish a full - blown exposé on the Blossoms , but Hal fires her from the paper as retaliation for being kicked out of the house . Betty gets a call from Archie , learning that Polly moved in with the Blossoms to uncover the truth about Jason 's death . She and Jughead decide to write the tell - all exposé in The Blue and Gold and ask Alice to join them . Finally realizing that the Blossoms are using him , Archie attempts to reconcile with Val , but she breaks up with him . 10 10 `` Chapter Ten : The Lost Weekend '' Dawn Wilkinson Britta Lundin & Brian E. Paterson April 13 , 2017 ( 2017 - 04 - 13 ) T13. 20310 0.87 Fred leaves for Chicago to finalize his divorce , leaving Archie alone . Betty learns that Jughead 's birthday is coming up and that he has never had an actual party . She and Veronica persuade Archie to let them throw it at his house . Hiram threatens retaliation against Hermione if Veronica refuses to testify on his behalf . The Vixens elect Veronica as captain over Cheryl , who retaliates by crashing the party with Chuck and his friends . F.P. also shows up after Betty 's insistence . Jughead argues with Betty and tries to leave , but Cheryl forces him to stay for a `` game '' in which participants are forced to reveal their secrets . Jughead and Chuck get into a fight and F.P. declares the party over . He urges his son to reconcile with Betty and confronts Alice , implying she was once a member of the Serpents . Archie and Veronica comfort each other and share a kiss . Veronica agrees to testify on Hiram 's behalf . To Archie 's surprise , his father returns home with his mother , Mary . 11 11 `` Chapter Eleven : To Riverdale and Back Again '' Kevin Sullivan Roberto Aguirre - Sacasa April 27 , 2017 ( 2017 - 04 - 27 ) T13. 20311 0.89 While Archie and his mother reconnect , Veronica learns that Hiram may soon be released from prison . F.P. questions the purpose of Jughead 's novel , urging him to consider moving on . To learn the truth about Hiram , Veronica decides to investigate F.P. as a possible suspect in Jason 's murder . The Blossoms , increasingly suspicious of Polly , forbid her from entering their master bedroom . Fred and Mary agree to attend homecoming together . Polly and Cheryl discover the former 's engagement ring in Penelope 's jewelry collection , which she claims is because Jason threw it away in disgust after arguing with Clifford . At a contentious dinner , Alice tries to question F.P. , but he shuts her down . Afterwards , he informs Jughead that they will be moving to Toledo to reunite with the rest of the Jones family . While Archie and Veronica perform `` Kids in America '' at homecoming , the police execute a search warrant on F.P. 's trailer , find a gun , and arrest him for murder . Jughead disappears and Archie and Veronica deduce that someone is framing F.P. for Jason 's death . 12 12 `` Chapter Twelve : Anatomy of a Murder '' Rob Seidenglanz Michael Grassi May 4 , 2017 ( 2017 - 05 - 04 ) T13. 20312 0.98 Jughead calls his mother , but she refuses to let him move in with her . F.P. confesses to everything , including Jason 's murder . Betty and Alice catch Hal trying to destroy evidence and learn the family secret : the Coopers are , in fact , Blossoms by blood , making Jason and Polly 's relationship technically incest . The Coopers take Polly back to their home . Mary , posing as F.P. 's lawyer , advises Jughead to visit his father , who tells him never to come see him again . With Joaquin 's help , the group tracks down one of F.P. 's associates , but finds him dead of an apparent overdose . The police are summoned and find a bag full of money with Hermione 's initials on it . With both Hal and Hermione cleared as suspects , Jughead and Betty investigate a lead from Kevin and find Jason 's varsity jacket . Inside one of the pockets , they find a thumb drive and discover Clifford murdered Jason , which they tell Cheryl . Nevertheless , Jughead learns that his father 's other charges will not be dropped . Veronica learns that Hiram has been released and is coming to Riverdale and Mary returns to Chicago . When the police go to arrest Clifford , they discover he has hanged himself in the syrup distillery . 13 13 `` Chapter Thirteen : The Sweet Hereafter '' Lee Toland Krieger Roberto Aguirre - Sacasa May 11 , 2017 ( 2017 - 05 - 11 ) T13. 20313 0.96 It is revealed that Clifford was in the drug business and Jason found out . Clifford killed Jason to stop him from exposing the family business . F.P. is cleared of all charges relating to the murder , but remains in police custody . Alice reveals to Betty that , in high school , she found out she was pregnant , but Hal sent her to the Sisters of Silent Mercy and made her give up the child , a baby boy , for adoption . Jughead is placed in the care of a foster family and transfers to Southside High . Devastated by her father 's secrets and suicide , Cheryl attempts to drown herself in Sweetwater River , but Archie , along with Veronica , Betty , and Jughead , saves her . Cheryl later burns down the Thornhill mansion , much to Penelope 's dismay . The next day , Archie meets Fred at Pop 's , where a masked gunman arrives and demands Pop turn over his money . He then tells Fred to turn over his wallet at gunpoint . When Archie tries to intervene , the gunman shoots Fred .