In 1951 , Wright put Little Richard in contact with his manager , Zenas Sears , a local deejay . Sears recorded Little Richard at his station , backed by Wright 's band . The recordings led to a contract that year with RCA Victor . Little Richard recorded a total of eight sides for RCA Victor , including the blues ballad , `` Every Hour , '' which became his first single and a hit in Georgia . The release of `` Every Hour '' improved his relationship with his father , who began regularly playing the song on his nightclub jukebox . After its release , Little Richard fronted Perry Welch and His Orchestra , playing at clubs and army bases for $100 a week . Little Richard learned how to play boogie - woogie piano from teenage musician Esquerita around this time . Little Richard left RCA Victor in February 1952 after his records failed to catch on . That same month , Little Richard 's father was killed by his best friend after a confrontation outside his club . Little Richard , struggling with poverty , settled for work as a dishwasher for Greyhound Lines and hired Clint Brantley as his manager . He formed a band called the Tempo Toppers that year and began to perform as part of blues package tours in clubs across the south , such as Club Tijuana in New Orleans and Club Matinee in Houston . With the Tempo Toppers , Little Richard signed with Don Robey 's Peacock Records in February 1953 , recording eight sides , including four with Johnny Otis and his band that were unreleased at the time . Little Richard had a contentious relationship with Robey and soon found himself disenchanted with the record business and with his group , leaving Peacock and disbanding the Tempo Toppers . That same year , Little Richard formed a hard - driving R&B band , the Upsetters , which included drummer Charles Connor and saxophonist Wilbert `` Lee Diamond '' Smith and toured under Brantley 's management . The Upsetters began to tour successfully , even without a bass player , forcing drummer Connor to thump `` real hard '' on his bass drum in order to get a `` bass fiddle effect . ''