No . Title Original airdate 01 `` There 's no Place Like Home '' `` Wagaya ni Masaru Tokoro Nashi '' ( わが家 に 勝る 所 なし ) April 7 , 2007 Winter continues from the last season ; Shūrei is still in capital city while the New Year celebrations goes on . Kōyū is informed about Kurō 's plan of getting him to marry Shūrei , and becomes awkwardly shy around her . Kōyū goes to the demon 's party and gets incredibly drunk . Meanwhile , Shūrei needs to tidy up the house when she discovers she is going to have some important guests , but her friends are no help . 02 `` Does n't matter whether you 're laughing or crying '' `` Naku mo warau mo onaji isshō '' ( 泣く も 笑う も 同じ 一生 ) April 14 , 2007 The new year 's celebrations continue , Shūrei collects permissions from the Departments and Clans . Meanwhile , Eigetsu reveals his past to Kōrin and Ensei . Kōyū is still considering marrying Shūrei ... 03 `` Birds of a feather flock together '' `` Rui wa Tomo o Yobu '' ( 類 は 友 を 呼ぶ ) April 21 , 2007 Ensei receives a letter from an old man ( from Kōringun ) , informing them of a strange movement of a certain cult , founded by someone that goes by the name ' Senya Rin ' . As Shūrei goes home , Ryūren once again does his hideous flute playing , and Kokujun actually thinks it 's beautiful . Reishin discusses Shūrei 's marriage opportunities with Shōka . 04 `` If Winter Comes , Can Spring Be Far Behind ? '' `` Fuyu Kitarinaba Haru Tōkaraji '' ( 冬 来 りな ば 春 遠から じ ) April 28 , 2007 Kurō comes to the Hong residence to discuss Shūrei 's martial future with Shōka . Upon hearing that the head of merchant 's guild in Kiyo refused to meet with her , Shūrei runs to find Yūshun . As she makes her way around the imperial palace , Shūrei is confronted by a mysterious man . Back in Sa Province , Ensei receives another letter saying that a snow fox was discovered near Kōringun village , the site of the strange epidemic which triggers past memories for Eigetsu . 05 `` Love is not stingy in giving '' `` Ai wa Oshimi Naku Atau '' ( 愛 は 惜しみ なく 与 う ) May 5 , 2007 Before the man could approach Shūrei , he 's interrupted by Shōka . It is revealed that the man is Riō Hyō , the head of the Hyō Clan . Riō had taken an interest in Shūrei , who reminds him of his Bara - hime . Seiran gets Ryūki to start an investigation into Riō and the Hyō Clan . Shūrei and Kōyū talk but are interrupted when Yūshun arrives with a letter from the Governor of Koku Province . Eigetsu , knowing that his life is coming to an end , decides to leave for Kōringun village and bids farewell to Kōrin . 06 `` A Peal of Thunder in the Blue Sky '' `` Seiten no hekireki '' ( 青天の霹靂 ) May 12 , 2007 Shūrei meets with Governor Kai , who tells her of Eigetsu 's past . He also gives her some medical texts written by Eigestu 's former caretaker Dōshu , who was the legendary doctor Kashin . During their meeting , Shūrei receives letters from Eigestu and Ensei informing her of all the occurrences in Sa Province . She immediately summons all the doctors to the palace and gives them the texts which held a great deal of information about the current epidemic . Shūrei convinces the head doctor in Kiyo to order as many doctors as possible to Kōringun village . Eigetsu meets with Ambassador Hei and assures him that Shūrei will come with the help that they need . 07 `` Wholeheartedness Penetrates Even Stone '' `` Isshin Iwa o mo Tōsu '' ( 一心 岩 を も 透 す ) May 19 , 2007 As the doctors go over Dōshu 's texts , they stumble upon the cause and treatment for the illness . The only way to cure it is for the patient to undergo surgery . Unfortunately , none of the doctors present knew how to perform it . Shūrei hears of one who can and remembers that he is an old family friend . Dr. Yō agrees to go to Sa Province and to also train all the doctors along the way . Using Dōshu 's texts as an incentive , Shūrei gets the Merchant 's guild to agree to send aid as well . 08 `` After Doing One 's All , One Leaves Things Up to Heaven 's Will '' `` Jinji o Tsukushite Tenmei o Matsu '' ( 人事 を 尽くし て 天命 を 待つ ) May 26 , 2007 Shūrei 's drastic actions causes her to be summoned by the Imperial Court to justify them . Ryūki orders that the Imperial Army deal with the mountain cult , but Shūrei openly refuses . Realizing how in the process a great deal of lives could be lost , Shūrei convinces him to allow her to deal with the cult on her own despite the risk to her own life . After everything was settled , Shūrei breaks down under all the stress , but she recovers in time to bid farewell to Ryūki and promise him that she will return safely . 09 `` Meeting the Buddha in Hell '' `` Jigoku de hotoke ni au '' ( 地獄 で 仏 に 会う ) June 2 , 2007 Eigetsu is helping the ill villagers , but is lured away by a cloaked man who looks identical to the deceased Dōshu . Flashbacks to Eigetsu 's past are shown . In the present , Eigetsu awakens tied up inside of a cave after being beaten . After seeing the man again , Eigetsu immediately realizes that he is not Dōshu . Kōrin runs away determined to find Eigetsu . Shūrei 's group with Shūei as her escort arrives in Korin but are denied entry . Luckily , Ensei and Shō Sai force the gate open and the group makes camp inside . Shūei gives Ensei Seiran 's Kansho before departing . Shūrei asks Ensei that if the time comes to perform an extraordinary act . 10 `` The Awaited Person Finally Comes '' `` Machibito Kitaru '' ( 待ち人 きたる ) June 9 , 2007 The story moves on to explain the meaning behind Shūrei 's request to Ensei , and why she 's worrying over being blamed for the disease when she is clearly not the one who caused it . Preparations for the treatment are being done by the doctors on the side of Shūrei , while Shuuran leads the people of Sekie village to Kōringun to speed up the treatment process . Shūrei and her company however receives some harsh welcome as they enter Kōringun , with people still believing the rumors spread by the Jasenkyō . 11 `` The husband is always the last to know '' `` Shiranu wa teishu bakari nari '' ( 知ら ぬ は 亭主 ばかり なり ) June 16 , 2007 Shūrei arrives with the doctors but becomes faced with much resistance from people of Kōringun who still blames her for the disease . They are thrown in a pinch as these people , headed by Shuon , rebel against Taishu 's orders and is determined to prevent them from entering the town . Will Shūrei and the doctors be able surpass this hurdle to save the people in time ? 12 `` There is No Courage If You Do Not Do What Is Just '' `` Gi o mite sezaru wa yū naki nari '' ( 義 を 見 て せ ざる は 勇 なき なり ) June 30 , 2007 After successfully entering the town , Dr. Yō and the rest of the doctors prepare and begin treatment on the sick people while Shūrei and Ensei make sure to prepare everything that is needed or lacking . As more patients enter the town , the doctors continue to operate nonstop , saving most of them . As Shūrei and Dr. Yō prepare to leave for Sekiei Village , Shūran and Riō joins the group to guide them , while Seiran finishes preparations to go to Sekiei Village as well . Meanwhile , Eigetsu discovers the intentions of the Jasenkyō while Ryūki comes face to face with the head of the Hyō Clan . 13 `` Hastiness Leads to Failure '' `` Seite wa Koto o Shisonjiru '' ( 急い て は 事 を 仕損じる ) July 7 , 2007 While Ryūki unsuccessfully tries to invite the head of the Hyō Clan to some tea , the fake Dōshu waits for Eigetsu to die or Yōgetsu to appear . Ensei heads to Sekiei Village ahead of Shūrei and meets up with Seiran in the village . Seiran refuses to accept the sword Kansho from Ensei , telling him that until everything is over , he is to keep it by his side . While Shūrei and company formulate a plan to infiltrate the Jasenkyō hideout , a tired and normal clothed Ryūren shows up in their camp . Kōrin gets help from Shūren , enabling her to be reunited with her special person . 14 `` Enter the Tiger 's Den '' `` Koketsu ni Iru '' ( 虎穴 に 入る ) July 14 , 2007 While Kōrin starts the rescue operation , Ryūren tells a sleeping Shūrei that he 'll go ahead to meet Eigetsu . After a touching reunion ( and a long one at that ) , Eigetsu urges Kōrin to save the villagers rather than him . Seiran and Ryūren infiltrate the Jasenkyō hideout in different ways , with Seiran rescuing the villagers and Ryūren helping an unconscious Eigetsu back up . Meanwhile , Shūrei and Ensei walks inside the hideout and meets with the fake Dōshu whose body possessed by a boy , oblivious to the trap set before them . 15 `` A Flash of Time '' `` Issun no Kōin '' ( 一寸 の 光陰 ) July 21 , 2007 As Shūrei and Ensei place the fake Dōshu and his men under arrest , he tries to buy time to make Shūrei step on the trap , but is surprised when he discovers that all the villagers are gone , and his men are replaced with men from the Sashu army , with Serian leading them . As Shūrei takes a step forward towards Senya , activating the trap , and is set immobile . But before the trap fully activates she is rescued by Riō , who tells fake Dōshu who is actually a boy called Ren that he was betrayed by his own people and does n't have a body to go back to . It seems like Ren is actually Riō 's relative . Eigetsu asks Kōrin and Ryūren to bring him near Kashin 's body , before collapsing and to be replaced by Yōgetsu . 16 `` Candle in the Wind '' `` Fūzen no tomoshibi '' ( 風 前 の とも し 火 ) July 28 , 2007 As Kōrin falls ill from the shock , she is brought to Sekiei village to recover , while Yōgetsu is visited by the spirit of Kashin , and is requested a favor from Dr. Yō , who is one of the Eight Sages in disguise . As dawn breaks , Kōrin is visited by none other than Eigetsu , who tells her Yougetsu has once again given him life , enough to die of old age . Meanwhile , officials at the Imperial Palace are outraged that the outbreak has been resolved , and try to prevent the credit from falling to Shūrei . Ryūki is forced to demote Eigetsu , and Shūrei is suspended to Joukan , or a rank in name only . As Sekiei village begins reviving , Shūrei and company receives a letter from the Palace , informing them of their demotion . 17 `` Seven Ups and Downs '' `` Ukishizumi Nanatabi '' ( 浮き沈み 七 度 ) August 4 , 2007 Shūrei and company throw a feast to celebrate the revival of the cities in Kōrin , when they are visited by Governor Kei the next day , Governor Kei handing the gift entrusted to him by Ryūki to Shūrei . As Shūrei and Seiran depart for Kiyou , they are sent off by all the people in Kōrin . After arriving home , they witness the first buds from the Sakura tree they got from Ryūki , with Spring now approaching . 18 `` The Road is Distant After Sunset '' `` Hi Kurete Michi Tōshi '' ( 日暮れ て 道 遠 し ) September 15 , 2007 Past events are shown : The journey to Kōringun , the operation on the sick villagers , successful entry to the hideout of the Jasenkyo and the capture of its members , and Eigetsu coming back from the dead . Ryūki wonders whether his decision to have Shūrei unemployed would cause her to slap him . 19 `` Counting Your Chickens Before They Hatch '' `` Toranu tanuki no kawa zanyo '' ( 捕ら ぬ 狸 の 皮算用 ) September 22 , 2007 Seiran delivers a message to Ryūki from Shūrei , stating that their next meeting would be when the Sakura Bloom . Ryūki offers Yūshun Tei the position of Prime Minister , but Yūshun only accepts if the Emperor accepts the ten conditions he has set . Two men try to propose to Shūrei while on the way to the Kogaro to meet Kochō about a painting , and is greeted warmly by Kochō 's guest . 20 `` Futile Efforts '' `` Noren ni ude oshi '' ( 暖簾 に 腕 押し ) September 29 , 2007 Karin , the name of Kochō 's guest , finds Shūrei to be quite cute , then leaves when she sees the painting . Shūrei and company find out that the paintings are fake and find counterfeit coins while still in the Kogaro and dashes off to find out who did it with the help of Shin Suou , one of the guys who proposed to her and is also an official . Shūrei and company find a lot of forgeries in the shops around town , while Seiran notices that someone is following them . 21 `` Like Father Like Son '' `` Kaeru no ko wa kaeru '' ( 蛙 の 子 は 蛙 ) October 6 , 2007 As they continue searching for forgeries , Shūrei and company discover that prices for everyday household prices are slowly rising and ask for the help of Sai Rin . Shin Suou is baffled why Shūrei tries so hard even though she is suspended , while Karin comes back to the Kogaro and recognizes the painting Kochō has put up for display . Karin goes to the place on where the painting is situated from and is found by Ryūki and company . Shūrei and Company arrived minutes later and discover that the place is Shin Suou 's home . Shin Suou leads them to a locked building , then opens the door to reveal Banri , Karin 's son , painting the forgeries . 22 `` The Parasite In the Lion 's Body '' `` Shishi shinchū no mushi '' ( 獅子 身 中 の 虫 ) October 13 , 2007 Shūrei and company learn that Banri was tricked by two men into doing the paintings , while Shin Suou reveals his amazing insight on how his father is part of the painting forgeries but is not involved in the money counterfeiting . But before they can do anything , someone else had sent soldiers from the Imperial Palace arrest Shin Suou and his father on counterfeiting and forgery charges , which carries the death penalty . Shūrei goes through the official procedures and with some `` persuasion '' from Seiran , convinces Shin Suou to help lower the penalty on his father . Shūrei meets with Ryūki and watches the first Sakura blossoms from the tree , with Shūrei venting her anger on `` Ryūki '' for the suspension . Shūrei already a joukan but to make matters worse officials have proposed the idea of kicking out useless joukan in less than a month . No departments are willing to take Shūrei either . Meanwhile she helps the other joukan . In the process she meets a strange joukan Seiga - kun . 23 `` One Good Turn Deserves Another '' `` Nasake wa hito no tame narazu '' ( 情け は 人 の ため なら ず ) October 27 , 2007 Shūrei , Tan - tan , and Seiga - kun all pitch in to help the other joukan in getting jobs . While doing this Shūrei decovers a horde of peach colored books , aka porn , that the other joukan had hidden . Later she asks Seiran if he has any peach colored books , since Tan - tan had said earlier that even Seiran would have some . Seiran denies having any , but then Shūrei points out that he knows what `` peach colored books '' are . He silently promises to give Tan - tan hell . Later Tan - tan and Seiran talk about Shūrei and Tan - tan asks Seiran to do him a favor . At the end Ryūki comes face to face with Riō - kun ( junior ) . 24 `` The Hardships of Youth Are Worth Bearing '' `` Wakai Toki no Kurō wa Katte mo Seyo '' ( 若い とき の 苦労 は 買っ て も せよ ) November 3 , 2007 Shūrei , while distressing on the half a month left , talks with Tan - tan . Tan - tan notes the erhu at the side of the table and asks her to play him a song . Ryūki visits Riō - kun ( junior ) and tells him about the woman he loves - Shūrei . While worrying to herself in the garden , Shūrei meets a mysterious man . While cooking , Shūrei realises that the salt is gritty . When she goes out , she finds out that the prices of salt has risen . The woman selling the salt tells her that the salt had been mixed with white sand and says that Shūrei has probably noticed it , which Shūrei had indeed . While talking with the woman , Tan - tan notices and approaches her . She tells Tan - tan that she wants to investigate this , even though Tan - tan tells her not to . She and Tan - tan come across Seiga - kun , who takes an interest and offers to help . She goes to meet Rin Sai - Tei and Shūei about the salt incident . Shūei gives her peaches at the end of the visit . The next morning , she goes to meet Ryūki , who is with Riō - kun ( junior ) , and to eat breakfast with him . Riō - kun ( junior ) initially hides himself behind the bookshelf . But , Ryūki calls for him to eat together with him and Shūrei . Shūrei is surprised . She and Seiga - kun work hard . She meets Hakumei - kun and Seiga - kun excuses himself . Later , while Seiga - kun and Shūrei are investigating , Yōshū - san visits them . He comments that Tan - tan has not been here . He says that the rumor is probably true that Tan - tan 's father has died . Shūrei is shocked . 25 `` Even The Wise Look Like Fools When They Keep Mum '' `` Taiken wa Gu naru ga Gotoshi '' ( 大 賢 は 愚 なる が 如 し ) November 3 , 2007 Shūrei receives the things she asked from Shūei . Tan - tan is working as a live - in worker for a woman . Shūrei and Seiga discuss their findings . Shūrei works all night to finish her report , but finds it missing after she awakens from her nap . Seeing that it is nightfall , she rushes to the Jin Clan residence . She meets Seiga who had a hanged and different attitude . While they are conversing , Tan - tan appears and joins them . After talking , Tan - tan yells to the chief , who enters . The chief of the Gyoshidai is the mysterious man whom Shūrei met . He leaves after saying that Shūrei and Tan - tan will work under him . Shūrei discovers that Tan - tan 's father is n't dead and that Tan - tan had asked Seiran to guard his father. Reishin gets extremely angry when Yōshū says he wants to marry Shūrei . Riō Hyō is announced as a part of the Sentosho at a meeting of the imperial head officials . Reserve officials are happy that they are not dismissed and Shūei Ran receives a letter saying that Jyūsan - hime will be sent and to bring her into the inner court . 26 `` The One Who Waits Has It Worse Than The One Who Is Waited For '' `` Matareru mi yori matsu mi '' ( 待た れる 身 より 待つ 身 ) November 11 , 2007 An episode of recaps . Seiran and Ryūki are alone in the room . Seiran tells Ryūki of Tan - tan . They talk of many things . When Kōyū appears , in Seiran 's presence , Ryūki tells Kōyū that he will take an imperial consort . There are recaps of Shūei too . Episode ends with Ryūki alone . 27 `` Peaches and Chestnuts in Three Years , Persimmons in Eight '' `` Momo Kuri Sannen Kaki Hachinen '' ( 桃 栗 三 年 柿 八 年 ) November 24 , 2007 There is a girl on horseback . Ensei appears . Shūrei is very angry and vents her anger while cooking . Shūei has flashbacks of a girl . While walking , he sees Shusui dancing the `` Sōyōren '' . Shusui is suffering from a sound . Ryūki introduces her to Riō . Shūrei , Seiga and Tan - tan are in the same room , when Shūrei and Seiga converse , Tan - tan says that it 's scary . Anju visits while Shūrei and Tan - tan are eating . Kōki gives Shūrei and Seiga a mission to protect the Jyūsan - hime . Shūrei meets the girl , who stops the thief . Seiran and Shūei are talking . Then , the girl enters and Shūei says Jyūsan - hime . 28 `` Absence Makes The Heart Grows Fonder '' `` Tōzakaru hodo Omoi ga Tsunoru '' ( 遠ざかる 程 想い が 募る ) December 1 , 2007 Jyūsan - hime and Shūei talk after Seiran leaves . Shūrei and Tan - tan go to the prison to inspect . There , she talks with a prisoner , '' Shun - san '' , who leaves , as he has been judged innocent . Tan - tan and Shūrei , while walking , are attacked by a bunch of guys . They escape safely . When they return , she and Seiga talk about their mission and that Jyūsan - hime has arrived . Tan - tan helps to lift her spirits . Later , she meets Riō ( junior ) while searching for a book and has a cup of tea with him . Shusui and Ryūki are having a talk . Jyūsan - hime talks to Shūei . Jyūsan - hime and Shūrei meet again . 29 `` The Silent Firefly Is More Likely To Be Consumed By The Flames Of Love '' `` Nakanu hotaru ga mi o kogasu '' ( 鳴か ぬ 蛍 が 身 を 焦がす ) December 12 , 2007 Shūrei is dressed up as the bait . Tan - tan and Seiran state their opinions on her disguise . Jyūsan - hime finds poison and measures are taken within themselves . Shūrei meets Seiga in her disguise . Jyūsan - hime gives Shusui a letter to give to Shūei . Jyūsan - hime and Ryūki talk . Shusui talks to Jyūsan - hime . Shūrei is left alone as bait . A mysterious man talks to Shūrei . Seiga talks to her and does her hair . Shūei comes to pick her up . Shūrei meets Ryūki . Seiga is seen talking with the official from the Department of Military Affairs . 30 `` One Reaps What One Sows '' `` Mi kara deta sabi '' ( 身 から 出 た さび ) January 5 , 2008 Shūrei talks with Ryūki . Ryūki goes to meet Kōyū and is allowed in . While Tan - tan and Shūrei are talking , Anju appears . Shūrei comes to a realisation after talking with Anju and then leaves with Tan - tan to get to work . When in the prison with Tan - tan , she meets Ensei . Later , she has a talk with Jyūsan - hime . Seiga is prepared and the official from the Department of Military affairs is there . A fight ensues . The official from the Department of Military Affairs dies . 31 `` With Painful Reluctance '' `` Ushirogami o hikareru '' ( 後ろ髪 を 引 かれる ) January 12 , 2008 Shūei and Jyūsan - hime are awaiting a person . They meet `` Shun '' , but Shūei calls him Jin . Jin calls Jyūsan - hime , Hotaru . Jin and Shūei fight after a short talk . Shūrei and Ensei make their appearance . Jin meets the Black Wolf after leaving . Shūrei and Seiga give their report to Kouki . Kōyū and Shūei talk . Shūei and Ryūki have a battle . Shūei returns the HanaShōbu at the end of the battle . Ryūki decides to go and take Shūei back . 32 `` One Changes With Time '' `` Tsukihi Kawareba Ki mo Kawaru '' ( 月 日 変われ ば 気 も 変わる ) January 26 , 2008 33 `` Bluer than Indigo '' `` Ai yori aoshi '' ( 藍 より 青 し ) February 2 , 2008 34 `` Crossing a Dangerous Bridge '' `` Abunai hashi o wataru '' ( 危ない 橋 を 渡る ) February 9 , 2008 35 `` Go to where your Heart Seeks '' `` Jinsei Itaru Tokoro ni Seizan Ari '' ( 人生 いたる 所 に 青山 あり ) February 16 , 2008 36 `` The Eyes are the Mirror of the Soul '' `` Me wa kokoro no kagami '' ( 目 は 心 の 鏡 ) February 23 , 2008 37 `` Friends through Life And Death '' `` Funkei no Majiwari '' ( 刎頚 の 交わり ) March 1 , 2008 38 `` Fate Crosses the Distance '' `` En Areba Senri '' ( 縁 あれ ば 千里 ) March 8 , 2008 39 `` Destined Partners Cannot Be Separated '' March 15 , 2008 Shūrei and company return from Ran province back to the Imperial City . Ryūki tells Shūrei that he ca n't wait forever for her , because as the emperor , he has a duty to get married . He suggests a contest to her : if he can win her over within a certain length of time , then he wins and she will marry him . If he ca n't , then she wins ; he will never ask her again and he will instead marry Jyūsan - hime , who has succeeded Shusui as head of the court ladies . Shūrei agrees and asks him how long the contest will last ; the series ends with Ryūki whispering the deadline `` Until the Sakura Blooms '' into Shūrei 's ear .