Alexander Siddig Ra 's al Ghul is the enigmatic person behind the Court of Owls ' activities and leader of the League of Shadows . With a past shrouded in mystery , the powerful supervillain uses cunning and deception to lay waste to his foes . His identity is foreshadowed upon the death of Shaman who works for Ra 's al Ghul . When Bruce Wayne meets Ra 's al Ghul in the bowels of the Yuyan Building , Ra 's al Ghul mentioned that he wanted Bruce to be his heir and does a final test where he wants him to kill Alfred Pennyworth . After Bruce stabs Alfred , he angrily tries to attack Ra 's al Ghul who gets away where he advises to Bruce to use the Lazarus Pit 's waters to heal Alfred . Siddig was promoted to a series regular for season 4 . During this time , it is revealed that he had revived Barbara Kean through the Lazarus Pit and is seeking a specific embalming knife . After killing Niles Winthrop and later Alex Winthrop in front of Bruce and Gordon , Ra 's al Ghul surrenders and is remanded to Blackgate Penitentiary to await trial . While also transferring some of his energy to a visiting Barbara , Ra 's al Ghul also had some of his men infiltrate Blackgate Penitentiary by posing as the prison guards . After doing a threat to Bruce Wayne to return to bother him when he starts a family , Bruce reluctantly uses the embalming knife on Ra 's al Ghul which reduces him to a skeleton just as Gordon and Alfred arrive . Gordon came up with a cover story that Ra 's al Ghul 's men infiltrated the prison and made off with him . The League of Shadows members that were loyal to Ra 's al Ghul used a ritual that involved Bruce Wayne 's blood to bring Ra 's al Ghul to life when they think that Barbara is not living up to her potential . Following a duel where her abilities show her different outcomes like her getting stabbed or Tabitha 's neck getting slit , Barbara relinquishes the abilities which fully restores Ra 's al Ghul . Afterwards , he later pays a visit to Bruce when Selina is around where he states that an upcoming fire in Gotham City will shape him into a Dark Knight ... if it does n't consume him first . After Ra 's al Ghul 's men help Jeremiah Valeska abduct Bruce in order to further his destiny , Ra 's al Ghul and Jeremiah come into conflict with Alfred Pennyworth , Barbara Kean , Penguin , and Tabitha Galavan . Barbara manipulates Bruce 's hand into using the reforged embalming knife to stab Ra 's al Ghul again . As Gotham City starts to become a no man 's land , Ra 's al Ghul advises Bruce in his dying breath to embrace his destiny .