Transform boundaries ( Conservative ) occur where two lithospheric plates slide , or perhaps more accurately , grind past each other along transform faults , where plates are neither created nor destroyed . The relative motion of the two plates is either sinistral ( left side toward the observer ) or dextral ( right side toward the observer ) . Transform faults occur across a spreading center . Strong earthquakes can occur along a fault . The San Andreas Fault in California is an example of a transform boundary exhibiting dextral motion . Divergent boundaries ( Constructive ) occur where two plates slide apart from each other . At zones of ocean - to - ocean rifting , divergent boundaries form by seafloor spreading , allowing for the formation of new ocean basin . As the ocean plate splits , the ridge forms at the spreading center , the ocean basin expands , and finally , the plate area increases causing many small volcanoes and / or shallow earthquakes . At zones of continent - to - continent rifting , divergent boundaries may cause new ocean basin to form as the continent splits , spreads , the central rift collapses , and ocean fills the basin . Active zones of Mid-ocean ridges ( e.g. , Mid-Atlantic Ridge and East Pacific Rise ) , and continent - to - continent rifting ( such as Africa 's East African Rift and Valley , Red Sea ) are examples of divergent boundaries . Convergent boundaries ( Destructive ) ( or active margins ) occur where two plates slide toward each other to form either a subduction zone ( one plate moving underneath the other ) or a continental collision . At zones of ocean - to - continent subduction ( e.g. the Andes mountain range in South America , and the Cascade Mountains in Western United States ) , the dense oceanic lithosphere plunges beneath the less dense continent . Earthquakes trace the path of the downward - moving plate as it descends into asthenosphere , a trench forms , and as the subducted plate is heated it releases volatiles , mostly water from hydrous minerals , into the surrounding mantle . The addition of water lowers the melting point of the mantle material above the subducting slab , causing it to melt . The magma that results typically leads to volcanism . At zones of ocean - to - ocean subduction ( e.g. Aleutian islands , Mariana Islands , and the Japanese island arc ) , older , cooler , denser crust slips beneath less dense crust . This motion causes earthquakes and a deep trench to form in an arc shape . The upper mantle of the subducted plate then heats and magma rises to form curving chains of volcanic islands . Deep marine trenches are typically associated with subduction zones , and the basins that develop along the active boundary are often called `` foreland basins '' . Closure of ocean basins can occur at continent - to - continent boundaries ( e.g. , Himalayas and Alps ) : collision between masses of granitic continental lithosphere ; neither mass is subducted ; plate edges are compressed , folded , uplifted . Plate boundary zones occur where the effects of the interactions are unclear , and the boundaries , usually occurring along a broad belt , are not well defined and may show various types of movements in different episodes .