Jacob Harlon ( Nikolaj Coster - Waldau ) is a successful stock broker living in Pasadena , California with his wife Katherine and young child Joshua . One night after departing a dinner with his wife , his coworker , and his coworker 's wife , he unintentionally runs a red light while drunk , causing an accident that results in the death of his friend and business partner Tom ( Max Greenfield ) . Arrested and arraigned on driving under the influence and vehicular manslaughter , his lawyer urges him to take a plea deal instead of going to trial , citing the fact that he could do up to seven years if he lost his case . Harlon agrees , much to his wife 's dismay , and is sentenced to incarceration at California Institution for Men ( Chino ) for 30 months , 16 of which he will have to serve . Upon his arrival , Jacob is shocked by the brutal realities of the prison environment , and is shaken after witnessing a gang rape during his first night . Upon entering the yard for exercise his first time , he accidentally stumbles into an African - American prisoner who responds aggressively . Harlon attacks the man , having been told by his lawyer that he was going to be housed with ' the big boys ' , and that if he was tested he would have to fight back , or face possible endless harassment . Both Harlon and the man are pepper sprayed and detained , and Harlon is thrown into the SHU ( Secured Housing Unit ) for thirty days . Upon entering the yard after his release from the SHU , he is approached by Shotgun ( Jon Bernthal ) , a lieutenant for the PEN1 gang , and is brought to see Bottles ( Jeffrey Donovan ) , the shotcaller for PEN1 in Chino . PEN1 , also known as Public Enemy No. 1 , is a violent white supremacist gang with close associations to the Aryan Brotherhood . Bottles inquires why Jacob attacked the other prisoner , and under the assumption that Harlon did it for racial reasons , offers him protection and entry into the gang . He also warns him that his protection would have a price , saying that there were no free rides . Harlon proceeds to carry out various tasks for the gang , from smuggling heroin into the yard to eventually even aiding in a murder with another brother .