No . Official English title Original Japanese title Animation director Writer Original airdate Ref `` Beginner '' `` Biginā '' ( 素人 ( ビギナー ) ) Kōji Ōdate Jukki Hanada April 9 , 2014 Sora and Shiro are two siblings and are known in online games as the undefeated group named The Blank . In real life , they are hikikomori who are ostracized by the world . One day , they receive a challenge from Tet to a game of chess and are victorious . In response he offers to send them to a world which revolves around games and they accept , believing it to be a joke . They are then summoned to a reality known as Disboard where a spell , known as the Ten Pledges , prevents violence and enforces the rules and outcomes of games . They travel to Elkia , the nation inhabited by humans , where Sora plays poker against a woman for her money and wins by out - cheating her . He and Shiro rest at an inn and decide their next goal is to find a home . `` Challenger '' `` Charenjā '' ( 挑戦 者 ( チャレンジャー ) ) Masaru Koseki Jukki Hanada April 16 , 2014 Stephanie Dola , granddaughter of Elkia 's deceased king , loses against Kurami Zell in a contest to decide the next ruler ; she then confronts Sora for not revealing how her opponent was cheating . Sora tricks her into a game of rock - paper - scissors and after winning , uses the Pledges to make her fall in love with him . Sora and Shiro then move into the palace with Stephanie where they learn more about world and decide to help Stephanie revitalize Elkia . `` Expert '' `` Ekisupāto '' ( 熟練 者 ( エキスパート ) ) Masaki Hyuga Jukki Hanada April 23 , 2014 During Kurami 's coronation , Sora reveals she was using magic from the elf , Fil Nilvalen , to win her games . Kurami salvages the situation but is forced to play a game against Sora and Shiro . Originally , they believe the game is chess , but Sora deduces it is a war simulator with chess themed pieces ; Sora 's charisma rallies his army , giving them an advantage and forcing Kurami to cheat by corrupting Sora 's soldiers . In return , Sora persuades Kurami 's queen to join his army by declaring her king to be corrupt . `` Grandmaster '' `` Gurandomasutā '' ( 国王 ( グランド マスター ) ) Chiaki Abe Keiko Yamamoto Jukki Hanada April 30 , 2014 Kurami 's army begin defecting to her former queen ; eventually her king is assassinated due to her tyrannical rule and Sora is victorious . Sora denounces Kurami 's plan in assimilating humans with the elves , declaring humanity is stronger than she thinks . Sora and Shiro are crowned the king and queen of humanity and begin solving Elkia 's political and economical problems . They later attend the formal coronation and receive humanity 's race piece , a chess piece which represents humanity 's rights and free - will . Tet visits Sora and Shiro and explains that whoever gathers all sixteen chess pieces , one for each species , will earn the right to challenge him for his title of god ; in response Sora and Shiro accept his challenge , declaring they will be the winner . 5 `` Weak Square '' `` Wīku Sukuea '' ( 駒 並べ ( ウィーク スクエア ) ) Maria Ichino Takashi Nagayoshi Takashi Aoshima May 7 , 2014 Sora and Shiro leave Elkia 's political responsibilities to Stephanie until she is challenged to a game by nobles who refuse the reform . She challenges Sora to blackjack in hopes of binding him to the Pledges to perform his duties ; she attempts to use false shuffling but loses due to card counting . Understanding her predicament , Sora trumps the nobles and uses the previous game to have Stephanie act like a dog . Stephanie tries several more games on Sora to take responsibility as Elkia 's king but fails . Sora and Shiro reveal they were not slacking , but are researching ways to conquer the other nations ; in response Stephanie redirects them to Elkia 's library which is owned by the flügel Jibril . 6 `` Interesting '' `` Intaresutingu '' ( 一手 ( インタレ スティング ) ) Kunihiko Hamada Kento Shimoyama May 14 , 2014 Sora and Shiro challenge Jibril by betting their tablet computer full of books ; considering it of high value , Jibril offers her freedom in exchange . They begin a game of materialization shiritori , where the words they use will materialize or disappear from the environment . From the game , Sora and Shiro deduce Disboard 's scientific research is lacking , and uses this knowledge to their advantage ; they succeed after removing coulomb 's law and inducing a hypernova , removing Jibril from the game . Impressed by the two , Jibril solemnly pledges her loyalty to them . 7 `` Sacrifice '' `` Sakurifaisu '' ( 死に 手 ( サクリファイス ) ) Rie Harada Kakuto Gai Takashi Aoshima May 21 , 2014 Jibril shares her knowledge about the werebeasts , revealing they have been undefeated for decades and always take the memories of the game away from the opponents . When Sora learns Elkia 's king challenged the werebeasts eight times and lost a large amount of land , he denounces the king and upsets Stephanie . Upon further investigation , Sora questions the king 's motives and eventually learns about the king 's will from Stephanie . Using the key from the will , Sora and Shiro find a hidden library in the king 's chambers ; there , they discover information regarding the werebeasts and their choice of games . 8 `` Fake End '' `` Feiku Endo '' ( 起死回生 ( フェイク エンド ) ) Shinichi Suzuki Keiko Yamamoto Yū Kamiya May 28 , 2014 Sora and Shiro enter the embassy of the Eastern Federation , nation of the werebeasts , to issue a formal challenge . Sora and Shiro reveals the werebeasts use video games and threatens to leak that information to the elves if their challenge is not accepted ; Sora bets humanity 's chess piece in return for all of the land on the continent . As the Eastern Federation makes preparations for the game , Sora waits for the missing piece needed for victory ; the next day , Shiro realizes everyone has forgotten about Sora . 9 `` Sky Walk '' `` Sukai Wōku '' ( 解離 法 ( スカイ ・ ウォーク ) ) Masaki Hyuga Jukki Hanada June 4 , 2014 Believing Shiro 's memories have been tampered with , Jibril arranges a chess game to remove the memories regarding Sora ; Shiro decides her memories are real and wins the match . After investigating , Shiro recalls Sora arranged a game of reversi with Kurami ; the game 's pieces consist of the components making up Sora and Kurami 's identity . Having lost most of his pieces , Sora was nearly erased from existence but the last three pieces allow Shiro to keep her memories of him . Shiro finds the pieces in her room and places them on an invisible board , winning the game and restoring Sora . From his victory , Sora shares his memories with Kurami , allowing them to form an alliance , and gains the right to manipulate Fil 's memories . 10 `` Blue Rose '' `` Burū Rōzu '' ( 指向 法 ( ブルー ・ ローズ ) ) Maria Ichino Takashi Nagayoshi Yumiko Kinoshita Kento Shimoyama June 11 , 2014 Sora and friends bond with Kurami and Fil as they make the final preparations to conquer the Eastern Federation . Per Sora 's demands , the match against the werebeasts is made public in order to prevent them from cheating . The game begins and Sora , Shiro , Stephanie , Jibril , and their opponent Izuna Hatsuse , are sent to a virtual reality world which resembles Tokyo . Sora and Shiro 's agoraphobia acts up and they enter a devoid state . 11 `` Killing Giant '' `` Kiringu Jaianto '' ( 誘導 法 ( キリング ・ ジャイアント ) ) Masaki Hyuga Kento Shimoyama June 18 , 2014 Recalling they are in virtual reality , Sora and Shiro return to normal ; the game is a form of cops and robbers where they use guns that fire heart - shaped bullets . While Stephanie remains clueless about the game , Sora , Shiro , and Jibril battle against Izuna and deduce that her grandfather , Ino Hatsuse , is relaying their location and state of mind to her . Sora and friends regroup as Shiro makes the proper adjustments to their plans . Executing the unspoken plan , Sora and Shiro corner Izuna , forcing her to use an ability called Blood Destruction to augment her abilities . 12 `` Rule Number 10 '' `` Rūru Nanbā Jū '' ( 収束 法 ( ルール ・ ナンバー ・ 10 ) ) Kōji Ōdate Kunihiko Hamada Jukki Hanada June 25 , 2014 Sora and Shiro are defeated ; as Izuna drops her guard , she is shot by Stephanie riding a NPC . Sora reveals he bound Stephanie to the Pledges to hide her intent while Shiro calculated the NPC 's movements , allowing Stephanie to hide her location . While Izuna laments the werebeasts ' fate , Sora assures her of his goodwill . Sora forces political pressure on the Eastern Federation leader , the nameless miko , to challenge him to a game . They have a coin flip where Sora has it land on its edge . He convinces the miko to declare they both win and as a result , Elkia can share resources with the Eastern Federation while the werebeasts maintain their self - rule ; the allied nation is named the Elkia Federation . In the aftermath , Sora and friends have the miko channel an old deus for a game .