Clarissa Marie Darling ( Melissa Joan Hart ) -- a smart , sarcastic and realistic teenage girl . Despite her rationalism , she often tends to exaggerate any problem she 's facing . She was approximately 14 years old when the series began and was a 9th grader at Thomas Tupper Junior High School . Her interests include computer game programming , photography , journalism and rock music . Though she is usually mild - mannered , she can be just as selfish and calculating as her younger brother Ferguson . Clarissa is best known for her unique fashion sense , typically involving very colorful , mismatched clothing . During Season 1 , Clarissa had an alligator named Elvis , but in the first episode of Season 2 , Clarissa explained that her parents sent Elvis back to Florida when he grew too big . In Mitchell Kriegman 's novel , Things I Ca n't Explain , Clarissa further elaborated that he `` disappeared under mysterious circumstances '' and `` it took years to get mom to confess that she gave away the reptilian Elvis without telling me after Ferguson tried to shove a pocket watch down its throat thinking it would win him the role of Captain Hook in the school play . '' Ferguson W. Darling ( Jason Zimbler ) -- Clarissa 's younger brother , a mischievous redhead . He and Clarissa continually antagonize each other . She refers to him with several epithets such as `` Ferg - face '' , `` Fergwad '' or `` Fergbreath . '' He loves money and comes up with get - rich - quick schemes . He is also a Young Republican who idolizes Dan Quayle and Ronald Reagan . He attends school with her and is about one or two years younger . Despite their rivalry , they occasionally collaborate , usually to the advantage of both . Unlike Clarissa , however , he does not seem to be very popular at school . Samuel `` Sam '' Anders ( Sean O'Neal ) -- Clarissa 's best friend and confidant . Generally more optimistic and upbeat than she is , he often asks `` What 's the worst that can happen ? '' He is perhaps best known for entering her second - story bedroom with a ladder after a distinctive guitar chord plays followed by Clarissa 's `` Hi , Sam '' greeting . He is smart and polite and enjoys skateboarding . His parents are divorced ( mentioned in the pilot ) . Janet Darling ( Elizabeth Hess ) -- Clarissa and Ferguson 's mother . She is the only family member Clarissa sees as a voice of reason and thus she seeks advice from her occasionally . She is a teacher who works at a children 's museum . She is also an environmentalist and an organic food enthusiast who often cooks bizarre meals . Marshall Darling ( Joe O'Connor ) -- Clarissa and Ferguson 's father . He is an architect who designs unusually shaped buildings , mostly retail and tourist attractions ( such as the `` Fryfel Tower '' ) . Clarissa sometimes comes to him for advice , but he is less reliable in this role than Janet . He often calls Clarissa `` sport '' , seldom addressing her by name . He and Janet are former flower children from the 1960s .