The League of Shadows again makes an appearance in the third and final film of Nolan 's Batman trilogy , The Dark Knight Rises ( 2012 ) . The League , now under the leadership of Bane ( Tom Hardy ) and a secret accomplice , returns to finish Ra 's al Ghul 's plan to destroy Gotham City . Its membership now includes a large number of Bane 's fellow mercenaries who were former employees of corrupt Wayne Enterprise board member John Daggett ( Ben Mendelsohn ) . The newly resurrected League of Shadows plots to hold Gotham under siege by converting a fusion reactor that was developed by Wayne Enterprises in a project sponsored by Miranda Tate ( Marion Cotillard ) into a nuclear bomb . During their first confrontation , Bane defeated Batman and placed him in Bane 's former home , a foreign penitentiary known only as `` the Pit '' . After trapping most of the members of the GCPD in the sewers , Bane then proceeded to hold Gotham hostage while giving the citizens false hope of survival by means of a faux revolution while stating that he has given the trigger of the bomb to a random Gothamite . The next day , Bane exposed the truth about Harvey Dent and had all of the inmates of Blackgate Penitentiary released by his men . While in his cell , Bruce was told the story of an exiled mercenary and his wife and child that were once imprisoned there . The child was said to be the only one who successfully escaped the prison . Ra 's al Ghul appeared to Bruce in the form of a hallucination , who implied that he was `` immortal '' through the birth of his child within the Pit , the heir to the League of Shadows . Bruce assumed that the mercenary 's child was Bane and that Ra 's al Ghul was his father . After Batman had defeated Bane , Miranda stabbed Batman and revealed herself as Talia al Ghul , Ra 's al Ghul 's child , who climbed out of the Pit with the aid of her childhood friend and protector Bane . Bane was secretly working with her while she operated under the name of Miranda Tate to complete her father 's mission , showing Batman that she was always the one who held the trigger to the nuclear bomb . Talia recounted that the League trained her and Bane , that Ra 's banished Bane because he reminded him of the prior loss of his wife , and that Bane 's only crime was loving her . Talia resented her father for this , but she was never able to forgive him until he died fighting Batman . Selina Kyle / Catwoman ( Anne Hathaway ) kills Bane with the Bat - Pod 's cannon at short range , and she and Batman confront Talia , eventually forcing her truck carrying the bomb off the road where she died believing that her father 's work was finished . Following a battle within Gotham City 's streets and the deaths of Bane and Talia , the rest of the surviving League members in the city along with Gotham 's criminals are either jailed , incapacitated , or killed in battle against the GCPD .