No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) 100 `` Mercy '' Greg Nicotero Scott M. Gimple October 22 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 22 ) 11.44 Rick , Maggie , and Ezekiel rally their communities together to take down Negan . Gregory attempts to have the Hilltop residents side with Negan , but they all firmly stand behind Maggie . The group attacks the Sanctuary , taking down its fences and flooding the compound with walkers . With the Sanctuary defaced , everyone leaves except Gabriel , who reluctantly stays to save Gregory , but is left behind when Gregory abandons him . Surrounded by walkers , Gabriel hides in a trailer , where he is trapped inside with Negan . 101 `` The Damned '' Rosemary Rodriguez Matthew Negrete & Channing Powell October 29 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 29 ) 8.92 Rick 's forces split into separate parties to attack several of the Saviors ' outposts , during which many members of the group are killed ; Eric is critically injured and rushed away by Aaron . Jesus stops Tara and Morgan from executing a group of surrendered Saviors . While clearing an outpost with Daryl , Rick is confronted and held at gunpoint by Morales , a survivor he met in the initial Atlanta camp , who is now with the Saviors . 102 `` Monsters '' Greg Nicotero Matthew Negrete & Channing Powell November 5 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 05 ) 8.52 Daryl finds Morales threatening Rick and kills him ; the duo then pursue a group of Saviors who are transporting weapons to another outpost . Gregory returns to Hilltop , and after a heated argument , Maggie ultimately allows him back in the community . Eric dies from his injuries , leaving Aaron distraught . Despite Tara and Morgan 's objections , Jesus leads the group of surrendered Saviors to Hilltop . Ezekiel 's group attacks another Savior compound , during which several Kingdommers are shot while protecting Ezekiel . 103 `` Some Guy '' Dan Liu David Leslie Johnson November 12 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 12 ) 8.69 Ezekiel 's group is overwhelmed by the Saviors , who kill all of them except for Ezekiel himself and Jerry . Carol clears the inside of the compound , killing all but two Saviors , who almost escape but are eventually caught by Rick and Daryl . En route to the Kingdom , Ezekiel , Jerry , and Carol are surrounded by walkers , but Shiva sacrifices herself to save them . The trio returns to the Kingdom , where Ezekiel 's confidence in himself as a leader has diminished . 104 5 `` The Big Scary U '' Michael E. Satrazemis Story by : Scott M. Gimple & David Leslie Johnson & Angela Kang Teleplay by : David Leslie Johnson & Angela Kang November 19 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 19 ) 7.85 After confessing their sins to each other , Gabriel and Negan manage to escape from the trailer . Simon and the other lieutenants grow suspicious of each other , knowing that Rick 's forces must have inside information . The workers in the Sanctuary become increasingly frustrated with their living conditions , and a riot nearly ensues , until Negan returns and restores order . Gabriel is locked in a cell , where Eugene discovers him sick and suffering . Meanwhile , Rick and Daryl argue over how to take out the Saviors , leading Daryl to abandon Rick . 105 6 `` The King , the Widow , and Rick '' John Polson Angela Kang & Corey Reed November 26 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 26 ) 8.28 Rick visits Jadis in hopes of convincing her to turn against Negan ; Jadis refuses , and locks Rick in a shipping container . Carl encounters Siddiq in the woods and recruits him to Alexandria . Daryl and Tara plot to deviate from Rick 's plans by destroying the Sanctuary . Ezekiel isolates himself at the Kingdom , where Carol tries to encourage him to be the leader his people need . Maggie has the group of captured Saviors placed in a holding area and forces Gregory to join them as punishment for betraying Hilltop . 106 7 `` Time for After '' Larry Teng Matthew Negrete & Corey Reed December 3 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 03 ) 7.47 After learning of Dwight 's association with Rick 's group , Eugene affirms his loyalty to Negan and outlines a plan to get rid of the walkers surrounding the Sanctuary . With help from Morgan and Tara , Daryl drives a truck through the Sanctuary 's walls , flooding its interior with walkers , killing many Saviors . Rick finally convinces Jadis and the Scavengers to align with him , and they plan to force the Saviors to surrender . However , when they arrive at the Sanctuary , Rick is horrified to see the breached walls and no sign of the walker herd . 107 8 `` How It 's Gotta Be '' Michael E. Satrazemis David Leslie Johnson & Angela Kang December 10 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 10 ) 7.89 Eugene 's plan allows the Saviors to escape the Sanctuary , and separately , the Saviors waylay the Alexandria , Hilltop , and Kingdom forces . The Scavengers abandon Rick , after which he returns to Alexandria . Aaron and Enid are ambushed by Oceanside soldiers , leading Enid to kill Natania . Ezekiel ensures that the Kingdom residents are able to escape before locking himself in the community with the Saviors . Eugene aids Gabriel and Doctor Carson in escaping the Sanctuary in order to ease his conscience . Negan attacks Alexandria , but Carl devises a plan to allow the Alexandria residents to escape into the sewers . Carl reveals he was bitten by a walker while escorting Siddiq to Alexandria . 108 9 `` Honor '' Greg Nicotero Matthew Negrete & Channing Powell February 25 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 25 ) 8.28 Realizing his time alive is limited , Carl writes several letters to his loved ones . After the Saviors leave Alexandria , the survivors make for the Hilltop while Rick and Michonne stay behind to say their final goodbyes to a dying Carl , who pleads with Rick to build a better future alongside the Saviors . Morgan and Carol launch a rescue mission for Ezekiel and successfully retake the Kingdom from the invading Saviors ; their lieutenant , Gavin , is killed by Benjamin 's vengeful younger brother , Henry . 109 10 `` The Lost and the Plunderers '' David Boyd Angela Kang & Channing Powell & Corey Reed March 4 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 04 ) 6.82 Aaron and Enid try to convince Oceanside to join the fight against the Saviors , but they refuse ; Enid returns to Hilltop while Aaron opts to stay at Oceanside until he can convince them to join . Upon learning of the Scavenger 's siding with Rick , Negan orders Simon to kill only one of Jadis ' people . Rick and Michonne travel to the junkyard to warn Jadis of the Saviors ' impending attack , but they are too late ; Simon had ordered the Saviors to slaughter the entire group ; Jadis , who managed to escape lures her reanimated comrades into a waste shredder to protect herself . 110 11 `` Dead or Alive Or '' Michael E. Satrazemis Eddie Guzelian March 11 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 11 ) 6.60 The Saviors hunt the surviving Alexandrians as they make their way to the Hilltop ; Dwight affirms his loyalty to Rick 's group as he distracts the Saviors and helps lead the group to safety . Eugene leads a crew of Saviors in crafting bullets at a new outpost while Negan plans to taint the Saviors ' weapons with walker blood , in order to make the others `` turn '' instead of killing them . Doctor Carson tries to help a feverish and nearly blind Gabriel to safety , but the Saviors eventually catch up , killing Carson and recapturing Gabriel . 111 12 `` The Key '' Greg Nicotero Corey Reed & Channing Powell March 18 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 18 ) 6.66 Maggie , Enid , Michonne and Rosita encounter a seemingly benevolent woman named Georgie , who gives them food and documents in exchange for phonograph records ; Georgie claims the documents to be `` a key to the future '' . Negan leads the Saviors to the Hilltop to send a warning via their newly tainted weapons ; Rick pursues the Saviors and chases Negan into a building . Negan eventually escapes , only to be captured at gunpoint by Jadis . Unable to find Negan , Simon instructs the Saviors to attack the Hilltop and `` expunge '' the community for good . 112 13 `` Do Not Send Us Astray '' Jeffrey F. January Angela Kang & Matthew Negrete March 25 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 25 ) 6.77 The Saviors attack the Hilltop with their tainted weapons , leading to a battle in which both sides suffer heavy casualties . Tara is non-fatally shot by Dwight in an effort to prevent Simon from killing her . Overnight , the injured die from their tainted wounds and attack the sleeping survivors after reanimating . Henry tries to take revenge for the murder of his brother , leading to the breakout of the Savior prisoners and the disappearance of Henry . Having seen the Saviors ' callous attitude for themselves , Alden and several other Saviors choose to remain at the Hilltop rather than return to the Saviors . 113 14 `` Still Gotta Mean Something '' Michael E. Satrazemis Eddie Guzelian April 1 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 01 ) 6.30 Carol and Morgan search for Henry while Rick hunts the escaped Savior prisoners ; Morgan abandons Carol and joins Rick , and together , they find and kill the prisoners . Jadis tortures Negan until he informs her that he had nothing to do with Simon massacring her people ; a helicopter flies nearby , but Jadis fails to catch its attention . Daryl and Rosita plot to stop Eugene from crafting ammunition for the Saviors . Carol finds Henry alive in the woods and they return to Hilltop . Upon Rick and Morgan 's return , Michonne encourages Rick to read Carl 's letter to him . 114 15 `` Worth '' Michael Slovis David Leslie Johnson - McGoldrick & Corey Reed April 8 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 08 ) 6.67 Negan returns to the Sanctuary and regains control of the Saviors . Dwight secretly prepares notes to Rick about Negan 's plans , and later sends Gregory to deliver the notes . Daryl and Rosita capture Eugene from his outpost , but he manages to escape and continues pushing his workers to craft bullets . Dwight lures Simon into a meeting where Negan accosts him for going against his orders with the Scavengers , and kills him in a fist fight . Negan then reveals that Laura informed him of Dwight 's siding with Rick , and that his planning was a ruse upon knowing of Dwight 's disloyalty . Negan is contacted by Michonne - who reads Carl 's letter to him at the request of making peace ; Negan remains intent on killing Rick and his allies once and for all . 115 16 `` Wrath '' Greg Nicotero Scott M. Gimple & Angela Kang & Matthew Negrete April 15 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 15 ) 7.92 Rick 's group follows the false plans given to them by Gregory , leading them into a trap . As the Saviors fire , their weapons backfire due to their ammo being sabotaged by Eugene . The surviving Saviors surrender , while Rick chases down Negan ; the two brawl and Rick manages to slice Negan 's neck , but immediately has Siddiq tend to the wound , knowing that Carl wanted Negan to survive . Meanwhile , an attack at Hilltop is stopped with help from Aaron and the Oceanside soldiers . The survivors regroup and rebuild their communities , but Rick 's decision to spare Negan angers Maggie and she vows to take action against Rick in the future .