Organizational design - Enterprise architecture provides support in the areas related to design and re-design of the organizational structures during mergers , acquisitions or during general organizational change . Organizational processes and process standards - Enterprise architecture helps enforce discipline and standardization of business processes , and enable process consolidation , reuse , and integration . Project portfolio management - Enterprise architecture supports investment decision - making and work prioritization . Project management - Enterprise architecture enhances the collaboration and communication between project stakeholders . Enterprise architecture contributes to efficient project scoping , and to defining more complete and consistent project deliverables . Requirements Engineering - Enterprise architecture increases the speed of requirement elicitation and the accuracy of requirement definitions , through publishing of the enterprise architecture documentation . System development - Enterprise architecture contributes to optimal system designs and efficient resource allocation during system development and testing . IT management and decision making - Enterprise architecture is found to help enforce discipline and standardization of IT planning activities and to contribute to a reduction in time for technology - related decision making . IT value - Enterprise architecture helps reduce the system 's implementation and operational costs , and minimize replication of IT infrastructure services across business units . IT complexity - Enterprise architecture contributes to a reduction in IT complexity , consolidation of data and applications , and to better interoperability of the systems . IT openness - Enterprise architecture contributes to more open and responsive IT as reflected through increased accessibility of data for regulatory compliance , and increased transparency of infrastructure changes . IT risk management - Enterprise architecture contributes to the reduction of business risks from system failures and security breaches . Enterprise architecture helps reduce risks of project delivery .