The Chaps released a Scottish parody version called `` Rawhide '' in 1982 . Peter , Paul & Mary recorded a parody of the song titled `` Yuppies in the Sky '' on their 1990 album Flowers and Stones . Terry Scott Taylor and Daniel Amos recorded a version in 1990 that appeared on The Miracle Faith Telethon compilation album . Impaled Nazarene recorded a black metal version of the song , which was released on the Sadogoat EP in 1993 . It was subsequently included in the CD version of their bonus album , Tol Cormpt Norz Norz Norz . The Alberta Celtic rock group Captain Tractor recorded an unusual version for their 1994 album Land . New lyrics describe the frenzy of corruption in a prairie town at the climax of a real estate bubble . Rather than fire - and - brimstone Christian imagery , the warning takes the form of vaguely Zen lamentations : `` The winds still blow / The rains still fall / The trees do n't seem to care at all ! '' Buckethead played a dub style version of the song during his Giant Robot album tour in 1994 . Dick Dale once again covered the song for his 1994 album , Unknown Territory . For a time , this version accompanied a NASA montage as part of the preshow video on Space Mountain at Disneyland and Magic Kingdom . Duane Eddy brought his electrified `` twangy guitar '' sound along with a sax edition by Jim Horn to a 1996 version on an Curb Album Ghost Rider . On the 1997 album , VH1 Storytellers , the song was recorded live with Johnny Cash and Willie Nelson . In that performance , Willie Nelson misses the start of the third verse because he forgets the text , and ends up switching the third and fourth verses . Deborah Harry , lead singer of Blondie , recorded a trance version of the song , which features on the soundtrack to the film Three Businessmen ( 1998 ) . The song ( produced and arranged by Dan Wool and Pray for Rain ) is available free on her website . Christopher Lee recorded a version of this song on the album Devils , Rogues & Other Villains , released by Nikolas Schreck in 1998 on his Wolfslair label . The Blues Brothers performed the song in the 1998 movie Blues Brothers 2000 . This version appeared on both the movie 's soundtrack and the compilation album The Blues Brothers ' Greatest Hits of All Time . Similar to the `` Rawhide '' scene in the first movie , the band is mistakenly booked at a bluegrass festival ( announced to the crowd as `` The Bluegrass Brothers '' ) . Buster Blues ' ( J. Evan Bonifant ) harmonica parts for the film were recorded by John Popper of Blues Traveler . In 1999 , Ned Sublette included a merengue rendition on his album , Cowboy Rumba .