Mr. Freeze appears in The Batman , voiced by Clancy Brown . Unlike most versions of the character , this iteration is a bank robber that fires ice blasts directly out of his hands . After a successful diamond heist , Victor Fries is pursued by the vigilante Batman into a cryogenic lab . Victor is presumed dead after being accidentally locked in cryogenic chamber and electrocuted . When Victor awakens , he discovers his new cryokinetic abilities and forces a scientist to create a cryogenic suit to contain his condition . In the episode `` The Big Chill '' , Mr. Freeze commits a series of robberies and freezes Batman 's body . Upon freezing a park , he holds the police at bay until the Dark Knight defeats him . In the episode `` Fire and Ice '' , Mr. Freeze teams up with Firefly to put Gotham in a permanent winter . Batman defeats both and leaves them tied up outside the police station . In the episode `` The Icy Depths '' , Mr. Freeze competes against the Penguin to claim an umbrella that is in fact a map to a sunken treasure . When the location is found , Freeze freezes the surrounding waters so that he can access the boat . When the ice starts to melt , he fights the Penguin to claim the treasure . Both of them are fished out of the water by the police . An older version appears in the episode `` Artifacts '' . In the year 2027 , Mr. Freeze 's powers have increased to the point that he wears a special mecha suit but he also loses an unhealthy amount of weight and the ability to walk and is forced to use mechanical spider legs . After a near - death fight with Batman and Nightwing , he places himself in cryogenic suspension until someone wakes him up in the future of 3027 . Once his suit is repaired , he continues terrorizing Gotham . Eventually , law enforcement officers use Batman 's methods to defeat Freeze and place him in a special cell . In the episode `` Rumors '' , Mr. Freeze is among the villains captured by the titular villain . In the episode `` The Joining '' ( Part 2 ) , Mr. Freeze joins the Joker , Bane and the Penguin in fighting the Joining when Arkham Asylum is attacked . Freeze saves Commissioner Gordon by freezing one of the Joining 's robots . In the episode `` The Batman / Superman Story '' ( Part 1 ) , Mr. Freeze is hired by Lex Luthor , along with Black Mask , Clayface and Bane , to kidnap Lois Lane and use Lois as bait for Superman . He and the villains are defeated by Superman , Batman and Robin . Mr. Freeze appears in Batman : The Brave and the Bold , voiced by John DiMaggio in a German accent . This version first appears in his Golden Age appearance and later as the George Sanders depiction . Under the name Mr. Zero , he is among the Batman villains in Bat - Mite 's fantasy in the episode `` Legends of the Dark Mite '' . Batman defeats him by throwing a batarang at his helmet . Mr. Freeze makes a cameo in the teaser for the episode `` Sidekicks Assemble '' as one of the villain holograms that Robin , Speedy and Aqualad fight . Mr. Freeze later appears in the episode `` Chill of the Night ! '' . He is among the villains at a weapons auction held by Joe Chill . In the episode `` Bold Beginnings ! '' , Mr. Freeze has captured Aquaman , Green Arrow and Plastic Man . Batman rescues and recruits the captured heroes to fight Mr. Freeze and his henchmen . After Mr. Freeze is defeated , Aquaman remains behind to wait for the police and continue telling Mr. Freeze of the first team - up with Batman against Black Manta . Mr. Freeze also appears in the opening for the episode `` Crisis : 22,300 Miles Above Earth '' in which he is one of the villains at the Joker 's celebrity roast in which the assembled villains are literally roasting Batman alive . With help from Jeffrey Ross , Batman breaks free from his death trap and defeats Mr. Freeze and the other villains present . Mr. Freeze appears in the cartoon series Young Justice , voiced by Keith Szarabajka . Introduced in the episode `` Independence Day '' ( Part 1 ) , he terrorizes a park in Gotham City until he is distracted and weakened by Robin and taken down by Batman . In the episode `` Terrors '' , Mr. Freeze is seen as an inmate at Belle Reve alongside Captain Cold , Icicle Jr . ( Cameron Mahkent ) and Killer Frost ( Crystal Frost ) . He and the other villains collaborate with Icicle Sr. ( Joar Mahkent ) in a breakout plot . When Freeze is brought to the prison 's warden Amanda Waller , he ends up freezing his own collar and then taking out the guards . He is defeated when Superboy shatters his helmet , forcing Freeze to turn his own powers on himself in order to survive . In the episode `` Coldhearted '' , Mr. Freeze and the other ice - based villains are seen in their cells . Mr. Freeze appears in Justice League Action episode `` Freezer Burn , '' voiced by Peter Stormare . After Killer Frost defeats Firestorm and Batman , she meets up with Mr. Freeze in order to collaborate only for Mr. Freeze to knock her out and use her as a power source for his freeze gun - wielding airship . While Batman fought Mr. Freeze , Firestorm freed Killer Frost . After the airship is crashed , Mr. Freeze tries to attack Batman and Firestorm only to be frozen in a block of ice by Killer Frost . Following Killer Frost 's escape , Mr. Freeze 's frozen body is taken away by the police .