In December 2009 , Arianna Huffington tweeted pictures of herself on the set of `` a Wachowskis movie on Iraq from the perspective of the future . '' CHUD.com reported what the Wachowskis were doing was camera tests and shooting of test footage on the Red digital camera for a future movie , but not shooting the movie itself . In March 2010 , Jesse Ventura said he had also shot for the project right before Huffington . Both of them were dressed as people from roughly 100 years in the future and they were asked to improvise without a script about the Iraq War . In May 2010 , Deadline reported the movie was going to be a hard - R story that would begin in the future but move back to the then - current war in Iraq and center on the homosexual relationship between an American soldier and an Iraqi . The Wachowskis completed the script and were searching for funding to direct it . In July 2010 , the movie was reported to have begun casting under the codename CN9 ( or CN - 9 ) , and in August 2010 the full name was revealed as Cobalt Neural 9 . In September 2010 , Vulture posted additional details about the script and revealed the movie would be told in found footage - style from the perspective of digital archaeologists from the future . An estimated $20 million budget was reported although they were told a studio would `` never , ever '' finance it but perhaps the Wachowskis could do it themselves . In December 2010 , The Hollywood Reporter wrote that Salman Rushdie and Cornel West had also shot talking head sequences along with the previously reported involvement of Huffington and Ventura but the Wachowskis were looking into other movies because of troubles financing it . In September 2012 , Aleksandar Hemon wrote about the making of Cloud Atlas and recalled he too was one of the people the Wachowskis had invited to interview in December 2009 , to help inspire the script of Cobalt Neural 9 . The last update on the film was in October 2012 , when the Wachowskis were asked about it and they responded they were still keen to make it , because they had invested both financially ( $5 million ) and emotionally into it , even if that ends up being in a different form than film .