Angus burgers -- Four types : the Angus Deluxe ( American cheese , sliced red onions and sliced red tomatoes , iceberg lettuce , pickles , mustard , and mayonnaise ) ; Angus Mushroom and Swiss ( sautéed mushrooms , Swiss cheese and mayonnaise ) ; Angus Bacon and Cheese ( bacon , American cheese , sliced red onions , mustard , ketchup and pickles ) ; and the Angus Chipotle BBQ Bacon ( chipotle sauce , red onions , pickles , bacon , and American cheese ) . In Australia and New Zealand , there are three Angus burgers sold ; The Grand Angus ( which is a clone of the Angus Deluxe ) and the Mighty Angus ( which resembles the Angus Cheese and Bacon , but with no pickles and mayonnaise and onion relish replacing the ketchup and mustard ) . For a limited time only , the Angus The Third , similar to the Grand Angus , but with no mustard and made with a tomato chili relish and only one slice of cheese . Also , for a limited time , Angus the Great was sold , a clone of the Angus Mushroom and Swiss . In October 2012 , an Angus version of the Cheddar Bacon Onion ( CBO ) Sandwich was made available , consisting of a horseradish - like sauce , grilled caramelized onions , bacon and cheddar cheese . In May 2013 , McDonald 's stopped selling the Angus burger . Two years later the third - pound burgers returned ( known as Sirloin Third Pound Burgers ) , but as a limited - time promotion . It comes in three sandwiches : Bacon & Cheese , Lettuce & Tomato , and Steakhouse . The Angus Burgers are still available in Canada and some markets in Latin America . Arch Deluxe -- An attempt to produce a `` luxury '' hamburger , promoted by a high - profile advertising campaign ( introduced in 1996 ) , today considered one of the most expensive failures in McDonald 's history . It featured a honey mustard - type sauce , quarter - pound beef patty on a potato roll , with leaf lettuce , tomato , red onion , and cheese ; peppered bacon was also offered for an extra charge . The Arch Deluxe was accompanied with three other burgers at the time , the Crispy Chicken Deluxe ( later renamed the Crispy Chicken Sandwich ) , the Grilled Chicken Deluxe ( later renamed the Chicken McGrill ) , and the Fish Filet Deluxe ( since discontinued along with the Arch Deluxe itself ) . Barry Burger -- A double bacon cheeseburger with onions and barbecue sauce named after football player Barry Sanders , sold mainly in his home state of Kansas . BBQ Chicken -- A toasted bun featuring shredded chicken and zesty BBQ sauce . Beef Wennington -- A burger solely offered in the Chicago area in 1998 -- 99 , named after former Chicago Bulls player Bill Wennington . It featured a single patty topped with cheese , onions , barbecue sauce and a slice of Canadian bacon . Chopped Beefsteak Sandwich -- test - marketed in various markets across the United States in 1980 as part of a McDonald 's `` Dinner Menu '' , offered only after 4 : 00 p.m. The Chopped Beefsteak Sandwich was essentially an elongated hamburger of a different quality served on a short French roll , similar to a sub or hero roll . Packets of steak sauce ( A1 sauce in Chicago ) were available for the sandwich . Big 33 or McJordan Special -- A quarter - pound burger with bacon and special barbecue sauce named after basketball players Larry Bird and Michael Jordan , respectively . Boselli Burger -- Jacksonville , Florida , franchises also featured the Triple - Double Burger in 1998 , named after Jacksonville Jaguars tackle Tony Boselli . Bratwurst -- For a few years during the 1990s and in 2002 , Johnsonville brand bratwurst on a hot dog - like roll was sold in some US markets for a limited time each fall . A few locations in Eastern Wisconsin , which is the major market for the Sheboygan County - based company still offer bratwursts on a seasonal basis . Buffalo Ranch McChicken ( also the Hot ' n Spicy ) . Catfish Sandwich -- A sandwich made with a catfish patty , lettuce , and tangy sauce and sold on a McRib - style bun . Sold at McDonald 's locations in Kentucky , Tennessee , Alabama , Arkansas , and Mississippi for a brief period in March 1991 . Cheddar Melt -- a quarter pound beef patty smothered with grilled onions ( sauteed in butter and teriyaki ) , then topped with cheddar cheese sauce on a light rye bun , offered in 1988 , the 1990s , 2004 , and 2007 . They are still available in Brazil under the name Cheddar McMelt . Chicken Fajitas -- The Chicken Fajitas consisted of a small soft tortilla , a grilled vegetable medley , and grilled chicken . The fajita was in the traditional thin wrapping paper . These are still available in British Columbia , Saskatchewan , Nova Scotia , Newfoundland ( at certain locations ) , Alberta ( at select locations in the Edmonton area ) and at all non-Walmart McDonald 's in Ontario . Chicken McBites -- popcorn chicken breast with `` home - style seasoning '' offered through April 20 , 2012 , in 3 - ounce , 5 - ounce and 10 - ounce versions . Dipping sauces include Ranch , Sweet n ' Sour , Tangy BBQ , Chipotle BBQ , Honey Mustard , Spicy Buffalo , and Sweet Chili . Chicken Parmesan Sandwich -- A chicken breast covered in bread crumbs and topped with tomato sauce and mozzarella on a toasted bun . Chicken Platter -- A grilled chicken burger served with lettuce and tomato on the HotCakes tray .