Normal : No filter applied . 1977 : The increased exposure with a red tint gives the photograph a rosy , brighter , faded look . Amaro : Adds light to an image , with the focus on the centre . Brannan : Increases contrast and exposure and adds a metallic tint . Earlybird : Gives photographs an older look with a sepia tint and warm temperature . Hefe : High contrast and saturation , with a similar effect to Lo - Fi but not quite as dramatic . Hudson : Creates an `` icy '' illusion with heightened shadows , cool tint and dodged center . Inkwell : Direct shift to black and white -- no extra editing . Kelvin : Increases saturation and temperature to give it a radiant `` glow '' . Lo - fi : Enriches color and adds strong shadows through the use of saturation and `` warming '' the temperature . Mayfair : Applies a warm pink tone , subtle vignetting to brighten the photograph center and a thin black border Nashville : Warms the temperature , lowers contrast and increases exposure to give a light `` pink '' tint -- making it feel `` nostalgic '' . Rise : Adds a `` glow '' to the image , with softer lighting of the subject . Sierra : Gives a faded , softer look . Sutro : Burns photo edges , increases highlights and shadows dramatically with a focus on purple and brown colors . Toaster : Ages the image by `` burning '' the centre and adds a dramatic vignette . Valencia : Fades the image by increasing exposure and warming the colors , to give it an antique feel Walden : Increases exposure and adds a yellow tint . Willow : A monochromatic filter with subtle purple tones and a translucent white border . X-Pro II : Increases color vibrancy with a golden tint , high contrast and slight vignette added to the edges . Slumber : Desaturates the image as well as adds haze for a retro , dreamy look -- with an emphasis on blacks and blues . Cream : Adds a creamy look that both warms and cools the image . Ludwig : A slight hint of desaturation that also enhances light . Aden : This filter gives a blue / green natural look . Perpetua : Adding a pastel look , this filter is ideal for portraits . Clarendon : Intensifies shadows and brightens highlights . Originally released as a video - only filter . Gingham : Washes photos out . Gives a yellowish tone when used on dark photos or a brighter , dreamy look when used on light photos . Moon : Black and white version of Gingham , with slightly more intense shadows . Stinson : Subtle filter that brightens an image , washing out the colors slightly Crema : Vintage filter that desaturates images . Smooths and washes out skin tones . Lark : Desaturates reds while punching up blues and greens -- brings landscapes to life . Reyes : Gives photos a dusty , vintage look . Juno : Tints cool tones green , makes warm tones pop and whites glow -- for vibrant photos of people .