Hannah Montana Season 4 episodes No. in series No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code Viewers ( millions ) 86 `` Sweet Home Hannah Montana '' Bob Koherr Michael Poryes & Steven Peterman July 11 , 2010 ( 2010 - 07 - 11 ) 402 5.7 The Stewarts move into their new home when Miley and Lilly realize that Robby has moved Miley 's old bedroom furniture , including white bunk beds , pink walls , pink bedding , dolls , a stuffed unicorn and Rainbow Piggy , and they set out to make some changes . Meanwhile Jackson must please his obnoxious neighbor TJ to get close to TJ 's cousin , Siena who lives next door . Guest stars : Angus T. Jones as T.J. , Tammin Sursok as Siena , Kiara Muhammad as Krystal , Morgan York as Sarah , Hayley Chase as Joannie Palumbo , and Davis Cleveland as the boy who wanted the tiger Hannah song featured : `` Are You Ready ( Superstar ) '' Absent : Moises Arias as Rico Suave 87 `` Hannah Montana to the Principal 's Office '' Bob Koherr Steven James Meyer July 18 , 2010 ( 2010 - 07 - 18 ) 401 5.4 When Miley does n't get registered for school in time , Principal Luger makes an exception to Hannah getting registered , which then fixes the problem . However , Miley realizes that having Hannah in school causes more problems . Meanwhile , Jackson gets paranoid when Siena asks him out . Co-stars : LaTonya Holmes as Choir Woman # 1 , Fuschia ! as Choir Woman # 2 , Clent Bowers as Choir Guy , Reggie Brown as President Barack Obama Guest stars : Tammin Sursok as Siena , Erin Matthews as Karen Kunkle , Morgan York as Sarah , Hayley Chase as Joannie Palumbo Special guest star : Ray Liotta as Principal Luger Hannah song featured : `` Ordinary Girl '' 88 `` California Screamin ' '' Bob Koherr Jay J. Demopoulos July 25 , 2010 ( 2010 - 07 - 25 ) 403 4.2 Miley feels that Robby has sacrificed his personal life for her career , so she sets him up on a blind date with her school nurse Lori . Meanwhile , Jackson is worried about his first kiss with Siena because Rico said that 's the only reason she has n't broken up with him . Co-star : Angel Parker as Sharon Guest stars : Christine Taylor as Lori and Tammin Sursok as Siena 89 `` De-Do - Do - Do , Da - Do n't - Do n't , Do n't , Tell My Secret '' Adam Weissman Andrew Green August 1 , 2010 ( 2010 - 08 - 01 ) 404 5.7 Miley almost blows her cover when she returns from a Hannah Montana function ( a fashion designer meeting ) and Siena spots her , and becomes suspicious that Jackson is seeing another girl so Jackson begs Miley to tell her the truth . After Siena almost catches Miley as Hannah Montana twice , she agrees to tell Siena , but backs down . After Siena finally thinks Jackson is cheating on her with Hannah Montana , Miley finally comes clean and tells the truth . Meanwhile , Robby goes fishing with Rico to teach him how to relax . Guest stars : Tammin Sursok as Siena , Robert Costanzo as Al Blaine 90 5 `` It 's the End of the Jake as We Know It '' Shannon Flynn Maria Brown - Gallenberg August 8 , 2010 ( 2010 - 08 - 08 ) 405 4.7 When Oliver comes to visit , he brings a secret about Jake with him : he cheated on Miley . After Jake arrives , Lilly and Oliver attempt to hide the truth from Miley so she can focus on her holiday sketches . She later finds out when a kid overhears Oliver and Lilly talk about Jake . The kid then blabs it out when Miley is around , leading Oliver to show her the picture of Jake with another girl . After an intense sketch with Jake , Miley finally ends it with him . Meanwhile , Jackson pretends to be Rico 's father for two - thousand dollars so he can get money to see Siena modeling in Peru . Co-star : David Burrus as Henry Guest stars : Robert Contanzo as Al Blaine , Alec Ledd as Ronnie , Cody Linley as Jake Ryan Special guest star : Mitchel Musso as Oliver Oken Special guest appearance : Sheryl Crow as Herself Note : This was the final appearance of the `` Mike Standley III '' character . Hannah song featured : `` Need a Little Love '' ( featuring Sheryl Crow ) 91 6 `` Been Here All Along '' Adam Weissman Douglas Lieblein August 22 , 2010 ( 2010 - 08 - 22 ) 407 4.6 Miley cancels a special father - daughter afternoon with her dad to go on a first date with Jesse instead . She gets mad when Jesse answers a phone call from his father because she blew off her father to spend time with him , but Jesse tells her that his dad is stationed in Afghanistan and they hardly ever get to talk . Miley then realizes how lucky she is to still have her dad and goes home to apologize and tells him that she 's grateful to have him . In honor of those in the military and their families who do n't have the fortune of having them home , she holds a concert as Hannah in support of them . Co-stars : Samantha Abrigo as little girl , Brandi Cyrus as guitarist , Charlene Deguzman as drummer , Alvin C. Forbes as keyboardist , Max Atom Kuehn as bass player Guest stars : Christine Taylor as Lori and Drew Roy as Jesse Hannah songs featured : `` Been Here All Along '' , `` Que Sera '' and `` I 'm Still Good '' Absent : Moises Arias as Rico Suave 92 7 `` Love That Let 's ( sic ) Go '' `` Love That Lets Go '' Adam Weissman Heather Wordham September 12 , 2010 ( 2010 - 09 - 12 ) 406 4.5 Miley and Lilly make a deal , if Miley climbs a rope at school , Lilly will ride Bluee Jeans . When Lilly rides Blue Jeans , she falls off and breaks her leg , and Blue Jeans is scared off and bitten by a snake . Lilly and Robby Ray comfort Miley when Blue Jeans does not stand up . Siena gives Jackson her favorite book , To Kill a Mockingbird to read , however , he becomes distracted by wrestling magazines , and John Cena appears to convince Jackson to read the book . In the end , after much worrying from Miley , Blue Jeans stands up , and Jackson confesses to Siena that he did not read the book , only for her to say the both are going to read the book together . Guest stars : Tammin Sursok as Siena , Morgan York as Sarah , Noah Cyrus as Little Girl Special guest appearance : John Cena as himself Hannah song featured : `` Love That Lets Go '' ( featuring Billy Ray Cyrus ) Absent : Moises Arias as Rico Suave 93 8 `` Hannah 's Gonna Get This '' Bob Koherr Teleplay by : Steven James Meyer Story by : Donna Jatho October 3 , 2010 ( 2010 - 10 - 03 ) 408 4.1 Hannah must write a new song for her upcoming album before Friday . She writes a song that her director does n't like . He finds 10 Hannah fans and asks them if they like the song . Most of them do n't , so Hannah makes Lilly dress up as a kid and try and convince them . Hannah realizes that it is her career and she wants to do the song even if there are some negative comments . In the end she ends up having the song as a duet with Iyaz as he really wants to sing it . Meanwhile , Jackson sees that Rico has a mustache and he tries to grow one too . After several failed attempts Jackson admits that he ca n't grow one , but after doing some research reveals that everyone in Rico 's family who has or had a mustache ended up bald much to Rico 's horror . Co-stars : Zach Callison as Douglas , Brighton Sharbino as Cammi , Brie Bernstein as Tina , Nay Nay Kirby as Chelsea Guest star : Gildart Jackson as Quinn Special guest star : Iyaz as himself Hannah song featured : `` Que Sera '' , `` Gonna Get This '' ( featuring Iyaz ) , `` Barefoot Cinderella '' ( sung by Robbie Ray while writing it for Hannah ) 94 9 `` I 'll Always Remember You '' Bob Koherr ( Part 1 ) Shannon Flynn ( Part 2 ) Andrew Green & Maria Brown - Gallenberg November 7 , 2010 ( 2010 - 11 - 07 ) 409 -- 410 7.1 Miley 's secret becomes a problem . Her boyfriend Jesse reveals he knows her secret just by paying attention , and on the Jay Leno show Jesse plants a light kiss on Hannah 's cheek , giving the impression that the two are dating . At the beach , Jesse hugs Miley and the world grows upset at him because they think he is cheating on Hannah , not knowing the two girls are the same person . This upsets Jesse , and the two separate . Miley and Lilly get their college acceptance letters , but Miley did n't get into Stanford because she did n't have enough extracurricular activities being Hannah . She fails to get in with Hannah 's help , so Lilly opts to stay out of college for the year , until Miley gets in . Miley , through help of her conscience Hannah , realizes what her friends are doing for her secret . After looking back at all her Hannah clothing , and remembering scenes from past episodes , she goes back on the Jay Leno show and reveals to the world her secret and sings a song as Miley for the first time . Guest stars : Valerie Mahaffey as Ms. Jameson , Tammin Sursok as Siena , and Drew Roy as Jesse Special guest stars : Jay Leno as himself and Phil McGraw as himself Notes : This is a special one - hour episode . This episode was available first on the Who Is Hannah Montana ? DVD available on November 2 , 2010 . This episode aired internationally on the same day as the USA . Hannah song featured : `` Barefoot Cinderella '' , `` I 'll Always Remember You '' , `` Wherever I Go '' 95 10 `` Can You See the Real Me ? '' John D'Incecco Douglas Lieblein December 5 , 2010 ( 2010 - 12 - 05 ) 411 4.9 Miley is interviewed by Robin Roberts after revealing she is Hannah Montana . Miley discusses her double life and relives some of her most memorable moments about her friends , her family , her dating life , and how she was able to manage two lives . Special guest star : Robin Roberts as herself Songs featured : `` This Is the Life '' , `` True Friend '' , `` One in a Million '' , `` Nobody 's Perfect '' , `` Been Here All Along '' , `` Life 's What You Make It '' , `` I Want My Mullet Back '' Notes : Although they were not in the episode , Lilly , Robby Ray , Jackson and Rico were shown in clips from previous episodes . Oliver Oken was also shown in flashbacks . This is the first ( and only ) time that Lilly and Jackson have not appeared in an episode . Absent : Emily Osment as Lilly Truscott , Jason Earles as Jackson Stewart , Moises Arias as Rico Suave , Billy Ray Cyrus as Robby Ray Stewart 96 11 `` Kiss It All Goodbye '' `` Kiss It Goodbye '' Shannon Flynn Teleplay by : Jay J. Demopoulos Story by : Edward C. Evans December 19 , 2010 ( 2010 - 12 - 19 ) 412 4.2 Miley discovers the consequences after she revealed she was Hannah Montana , as critics and parents alike have negative thoughts about the shocking news . When Aunt Dolly asks Miley to join her on stage , Miley fears she can never perform again . After Robby Ray gets the courage to get back on stage , Miley decides to kiss her fears of rejection goodbye . Meanwhile , Rico suffers a breakdown because he never realized that Miley is Hannah Montana , and Jackson and Lilly help him recover . Co-stars : LaTonya Holmes as Choir Member # 1 , Clent Bowers as Choir Member # 2 , Meloney Collins as Choir Member # 3 , Brandi Cyrus as Guitarist , Alvin C. Forbes as Bass Player , Stacy Jones as Drummer , Jason D. Williams as Piano Player Guest stars : Michael Kagan as Collin Lassiter , Daniel Windhymm Hayes as Ollie Jr . Special guest star : Dolly Parton as Aunt Dolly Hannah song featured : `` Kiss It Goodbye '' Song featured : `` The Right Time '' performed by Billy Ray Cyrus and Dolly Parton 97 12 `` I Am Mamaw , Hear Me Roar ! '' Bob Koherr Heather Wordham January 9 , 2011 ( 2011 - 01 - 09 ) 413 4.3 When graduation day arrives , Mamaw is disappointed that she could n't even get a picture with Miley because of her fans . When fans begin to surround Miley , Mamaw becomes distraught that her granddaughter is caring more about her fans than her own grandmother . Meanwhile , Rico tricks Jackson into saying that he would n't be into Siena if she had short hair . Co-stars : Lola Consuelos as Nina , Mary - Charles Jones as Young Miley , Maxine Weldon as Estelle Guest stars : Tammin Sursok as Siena , Hayley Chase as Joannie Palumbo , Nate Hartley as Aaron , Tim Maculan as Maitre d ' , Pamela Dunlap as Mrs. Elderman , Michael Ensign as Mr. Elderman Special guest stars : Vicki Lawrence as Mamaw Ruthie , Jon Cryer as Kenneth Truscott and Kelly Ripa as herself Hannah song featured : `` Gonna Get This '' ( sung by Mamaw at the end of the episode ) Note : The title is a reference to the second season episode , `` I Am Hannah , Hear Me Croak '' . 98 13 `` Wherever I Go '' Bob Koherr Michael Poryes & Steven Peterman January 16 , 2011 ( 2011 - 01 - 16 ) 414 -- 415 6.2 Miley gets a movie offer from Steven Spielberg and Tom Cruise , which shoots in Paris and will take a year away from her , and she is incapable of going to college with her best friend . She keeps this from Lilly and tries to get Lilly to come to the decision of not wanting to go to college with Miley . Finally , Miley reveals the movie to Lilly and Lilly gets upset . Meanwhile , Jackson struggles to keep up with his girlfriend 's lifestyle . Distraught , Miley and Jackson discuss their dilemmas. Jackson suggests that Miley should have asked for Lilly to join her in Paris . Miley then asks for Lilly to come with her to Paris , and they both decide to go to Paris together . Rico finds Jackson a dream job , and Rico and Jackson finally reveal that while they may fight , they are also close friends . Later , Siena comments on how unsettling the banter between Jackson and Miley can be to hear , but Jackson explains that is how they show their affection . Miley and Lilly 's respective boyfriends meet up with them at the airport to see them before their trip . Oliver gives Lilly some key words which force her to second guess her decision . Before getting onto the plane , Lilly tells Miley that she has decided to go to college , without Miley . Miley and Lilly begin their lives apart , eventually centering in Lilly 's dorm where she gets a knock on her door . She opens the door to reveal Miley , who declares `` I 'm Miley , I 'm your new roommate . '' The two hug , and then a montage of images from the course of the show is displayed throughout the credits . Guest stars : Drew Roy as Jesse , Tammin Sursok as Siena , Shanica Knowles as Amber Addison , Anna Maria Perez de Taglé as Ashley Dewitt , Tug Coker as Reptile Wrangler , and Julia Cho as Luna Special guest star : Mitchel Musso as Oliver Oken Hannah songs featured : `` Wherever I Go '' ( featuring Emily Osment ) , `` True Friend '' , `` Barefoot Cinderella '' , `` Kiss It Goodbye '' , `` I 'll Always Remember You '' Note : This is a special one - hour episode and final episode of the Hannah Montana series .