No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code US viewers ( millions ) `` The Mortal Cup '' McG Ed Decter January 12 , 2016 ( 2016 - 01 - 12 ) 267314 - 1 1.82 On Clary Fray 's eighteenth birthday , her mother , Jocelyn , is kidnapped . Soon after , Clary discovers that her mother belongs to a supernatural group called Shadowhunters , a half - angel / half - human race tasked to protect the Downworld ( faeries , werewolves , vampires , and warlocks ) from demons . Clary learns she also belongs to this race , after being saved by a fellow Shadowhunter named Jace -- who then introduces her to his adoptive siblings Alec and Isabelle . Clary overhears her mother 's friend , Luke , claim that he cares nothing about her or her mother . Clary is at a crossroads not knowing who to trust -- her best friend Simon or the Shadowhunters -- to help save Jocelyn from Valentine , a dangerous rogue Shadowhunter . `` The Descent Into Hell Is n't Easy '' Mick Garris Ed Decter & Hollie Overton January 19 , 2016 ( 2016 - 01 - 19 ) 267314 - 2 1.01 The Circle has returned , as has Valentine . With the Shadowhunters searching for the Mortal Cup , the Institute is on alert . After Hodge tells Clary that Jocelyn was once a Circle member , they realize Clary 's significance in the cause . Jace realizes Clary 's memories are the only way to find Jocelyn and the Cup . Unfortunately , without her memories they are unable to help her or the Shadowhunter team . Thus Jace , Isabelle and a reluctant Alec take Clary and Simon to visit the powerful Silent Brothers in the City of Bones , where Clary fails to retrieve any memories but finds out her biological father is Valentine himself . Meanwhile , Luke is worried about Clary 's whereabouts , while Simon comes to terms with Clary 's new life and gets kidnapped by vampires . `` Dead Man 's Party '' Andy Wolk Marjorie David January 26 , 2016 ( 2016 - 01 - 26 ) 267314 - 3 0.98 The Shadowhunters plan to rescue Simon , who has been taken captive by vampires in exchange for the Mortal Cup . Jace , Isabelle , Alec and Clary locate Simon 's whereabouts to the Hotel Dumort , where he is being held by Camille Belcourt , Raphael Santiago and the rest of Camille 's outfit . Alec and Jace have a dispute over Clary and her loyalty , since her father is their enemy . Isabelle visits Meliorn , her Seelie lover , in order to extract information about the Hotel Dumort , so the group can get into the building unnoticed . The Shadowhunters retrieve Simon and he is reunited with Clary , but he appears to be turning into a vampire after drinking Camille 's blood . `` Raising Hell '' Tawnia McKiernan Michael Reisz February 2 , 2016 ( 2016 - 02 - 02 ) 267314 - 4 0.96 Simon quarrels with Jace and leaves the Institute . The Shadowhunters lure warlock Magnus Bane out of hiding with a prized necklace , in order to gain his help in retrieving Clary 's memories . Magnus informs them that he fed the memories to a memory demon for safekeeping . The Shadowhunters track Magnus to his lair , where the Circle has attacked . Magnus transports the group to his loft , where they summon the demon . Alec 's personal insecurities about his feelings for Jace disrupt the ritual when they are each asked to relinquish a beloved memory , forcing Clary to kill the demon before recovering any memories . Meanwhile , Simon is plagued with visions of Camille , and ends up returning to the Hotel Dumort . 5 5 `` Moo Shu to Go '' Kelly Makin Angel Dean Lopez February 9 , 2016 ( 2016 - 02 - 09 ) 267314 - 5 0.95 The Lightwood family matriarch , Maryse , arrives at the Institute with a Seelie intel mission for Isabelle and Jace . Alec is ordered to watch over Clary , but she escapes the Institute for her old apartment to locate her mother 's secret box -- that once belonged to a `` Jonathan Clark '' . Clary and Simon are subsequently kidnapped by werewolves while searching the apartment , to Alec 's chagrin . Clary is interrogated about the location of the Mortal Cup , and the alpha werewolf threatens to kill Simon if she does not reveal the information . Jace , Isabelle and Alec then head to rescue the two , after Simon calls for help . The Shadowhunters are assisted in their escape by an unlikely ally -- werewolf Luke , who defeats his alpha and assumes the title . 6 6 `` Of Men and Angels '' Oz Scott Y . Shireen Razack February 16 , 2016 ( 2016 - 02 - 16 ) 267314 - 6 0.98 Clary , Jace and Simon take a mortally wounded Luke to Magnus for help . At Luke 's insistence , Magnus informs Clary of the Circle 's past and her mother 's involvement with the group . Meanwhile , Robert Lightwood arrives at the Institute , and he and Maryse task Isabelle with mending the Seelies ' broken ties with the Clave and restoring the family name . When Isabelle informs Alec that their parents plan to marry him off , he angrily leaves the Institute for Magnus ' loft . There , he , Magnus and the others save Luke 's life with magic . Luke informs Clary that she had a brother , Jonathan Christopher , who died in a fire caused by Valentine . Clary then discovers one of her powers , making her realize she knows the whereabouts of Mortal Cup . 7 7 `` Major Arcana '' J. Miles Dale Peter Binswanger February 23 , 2016 ( 2016 - 02 - 23 ) 267314 - 7 0.84 Clary reveals that the Cup is hidden in a tarot card that Luke took for safekeeping . When Luke goes to retrieve it from his desk at the precinct , he is detained by internal affairs officers due to demonic murders whose real killer was Valentine . While being questioned about his part in the demonic murders , Luke 's boss is killed by a shapeshifter . Clary , Jace , Isabelle and Alec enact a plan to obtain the Cup , but are tracked by demons . When a demon posing as Jace attempts to take the Cup from Clary , she kills it . Afterward , Clary and the real Jace share a kiss at the Institute . Meanwhile , Simon 's odd behavior worries Maureen and his family , who fear he is on drugs . He returns to the Hotel Dumort looking for answers and is met by Camille . 8 8 `` Bad Blood '' Jeremiah S. Chechik Allison Rymer March 1 , 2016 ( 2016 - 03 - 01 ) 267314 - 8 0.87 Raphael arrives at the Institute with Simon , who has been attacked and killed by Camille . He informs Clary that , unless Simon is staked or turned before sunset , his soul will be trapped for eternity . An envoy from the Clave , Lydia Branwell , arrives to temporarily take over the Institute . Valentine sends a Forsaken to attack the werewolf pack , but Luke kills it . While retrieving the corpse from Luke , Lydia inadvertently reveals to Alec that his parents are ex-Circle members . Isabelle performs a pathology test on the Forsaken and finds that it has angel blood . Alec decides to restore his family 's honor ( due to the current situation ) by proposing to Lydia . Later , another Forsaken attacks Hodge and Alec at the Institute , but they eventually defeat it . Clary decides to bury Simon in order for him to turn into a vampire , but he emerges thinking of himself as a monster . 9 9 `` Rise Up '' J. Miller Tobin Hollie Overton March 8 , 2016 ( 2016 - 03 - 08 ) 267314 - 9 0.95 Following the Forsaken attack , the Institute is on high alert . Lydia arrests Meliorn for supposedly leaking Shadowhunter information to Valentine . During his interrogation , Meliorn lets slip that Clary is in possession of the Mortal Cup . Jace , Isabelle and Clary decide to take matters into their own hands to prevent the Cup from reaching the Clave . With the help of Magnus , the three Shadowhunters sneak the Cup out of the Institute . Later , Isabelle , Clary , Jace , Simon , Luke and Raphael team up to rescue Meliorn from his impending torture in the City of Bones . Afterward , Meliorn informs Clary that he can help find her father . Meanwhile , Alec 's siding with Lydia and the Clave causes rifts with his personal relationships , and Simon makes peace with his newfound status as a vampire . 10 10 `` This World Inverted '' J. Miles Dale Y . Shireen Razack March 15 , 2016 ( 2016 - 03 - 15 ) 267314 - 10 0.78 Meliorn takes Clary and Jace to the Seelie realm where he reveals a portal to an alternate dimension . He tells Clary that if she locates another portal within this dimension , she will be transported to her father . However , when Clary arrives , she finds that Shadowhunters have ceased to exist in this peaceful world and may assimilate to Clary from that dimension . Jace and Meliorn protect the entrance to the dimension from demons , but when one slips through , Jace ventures in to stop it . With the help of Magnus , Clary finds the portal at the Institute , and she and Jace step through it . When they arrive at Valentine 's hideout , they discover Jace 's father , Micheal Wayland , assumed to be dead , is being held captive there . Meanwhile , in reality , Isabelle is arrested for the Meliorn mission , much to the anguish of Alec , who tries in vain to prevent her from going on trial . 11 11 `` Blood Calls to Blood '' Mairzee Almas Marjorie David March 22 , 2016 ( 2016 - 03 - 22 ) 267314 - 11 0.78 Clary , Jace and Michael Wayland head to Luke 's for help . While there , Michael discloses the location of Valentine 's new hideout -- an abandoned hospital in Long Island . Jace , Michael , Luke and Clary go to rescue a still - unconscious Jocelyn , but are surrounded by demons . Michael takes the Mortal Cup to command the demons , but then reveals himself to be Valentine in disguise . Clary subsequently reveals that Valentine is holding a duplicate Cup . Before fleeing through a portal , he informs Clary and Jace that they are siblings . Meanwhile , Isabelle 's trial begins , with Magnus as her defense attorney . During questioning , Lydia states that the trial is nonsense and withdraws the charges , but Inquisitor Herondale states that Isabelle will still be banished from Shadowhunter society if the Clave does not receive the Cup within 24 hours . Jace and Clary arrive back at the Institute with the Cup , dropping the charges against Isabelle . 12 12 `` Malec '' James Marshall Michael Reisz March 29 , 2016 ( 2016 - 03 - 29 ) 267314 - 12 0.82 Jace is conflicted over his feelings for his sister Clary , and Alec is conflicted over his feelings for Magnus as his wedding approaches . Isabelle throws her brother a bachelor party , where Alec and Jace mend their broken bond . Meanwhile , Jace and Clary are led by Magnus to visit Ragnor Fell , a former friend and warlock , for help on waking Jocelyn , believing that he is the one who created the spell that she is under . A demon follows them and kills Ragnor , but before he dies , he tells them that the Book of the White holds the antidote . Isabelle invites Magnus to Alec 's wedding ; seeing him , Alec realizes that he can not go through with the marriage . After apologizing to an understanding Lydia , he approaches Magnus and kisses him in front of the guests . Later , Maryse expresses her disappointment in Alec at publicly shaming them , though Robert offers support . Magnus finds that the Book of the White is in Camille 's possession . Packing up to head back to Idris , Lydia retrieves the Cup from a safe but is attacked by Hodge . It is revealed that Hodge has stolen the Cup for Valentine in order to be freed from his binding curse . 13 13 `` Morning Star '' J. Miles Dale Peter Binswanger April 5 , 2016 ( 2016 - 04 - 05 ) 267314 - 13 0.76 The Shadowhunters can not prevent Hodge from giving the Mortal Cup to Valentine , and he proceeds with creating his Shadowhunter army . Valentine betrays Hodge by refusing him protection from the Clave after getting the cup . Jace and Alec hunt down Hodge with Luke 's help , and Jace chops off Hodge 's hand in the ensuing battle . Jace then goes after Valentine with Hodge as guide , sending the others to aid Clary . Meanwhile , Clary , Isabelle and Simon visit the Hotel Dumort to ask Camille ( imprisoned for Simon 's unlawful death ) about the Book of the White . In exchange for her help , Camille demands that they break her out from her prison and provide a signed statement from Simon that he asked her to turn him into a vampire . Magnus , at his warlock loft , drafts the contract . The group then heads to Camille 's apartment , where she believes the book was hidden by Dot . They do find the Book , but are then ambushed by the Circle . Jace arrives to fight Valentine , but they are all captured . Jace agrees to join Valentine for the safe release of his friends . Back at the Institute , the devastated group uses the spell and wakes Jocelyn , who reunites with her daughter and Luke .