No . Titles Original airdate 517 `` The Beginning of The New Chapter ! The Straw Hats Reunited ! '' `` Shinshō Kaimaku - Saishūketsu ! Mugiwara no Ichimi '' ( 新 章 開幕 再 集結 ! 麦わら の 一味 ) October 2 , 2011 Two years have passed since the war at Marineford , and the Straw Hat Pirates have since trained for their return . Luffy departs Ruskaina to the Sabaody Archipelago to reunite with his crew and Zoro visits Rayleigh and Shakky in her bar . At a local tavern , Nami learns the Marines have switched their headquarters with their G1 Branch to be next to the Four Emperors . At the Sabao Dome , Brook holds his farewell concert as the Soul King and Sanji and the Okamas go their separate ways . Nami refuses to join a group of pirates who say they are the Straw Hats , but as soon as she is threatened , Usopp shoots down the fake pirates . Nami and Usopp finally reunite and Usopp reveals his new Pop Green weapon . Nami and Usopp flee , but not before she launches Weather Balls at the pirates . As the Marines are summoned to the archipelago to capture Luffy , Robin discovers Brook 's concert pamphlet and a recruitment notice with two World Government agents in hot pursuit , Franky waits with the coated Thousand Sunny , and Chopper is excited at the Straw Hats ' reunion . Just as the fake Straw Hats try to find Nami and Usopp , the real Luffy bumps into them . 518 `` An Explosive Situation ! Luffy vs. Fake Luffy ! '' `` Isshoku Sokuhatsu ! Luffy tai Nise - Rufi '' ( 一 触 即発 ! ルフィ VS ニセルフィ ) October 9 , 2011 Using a fake disguise provided by Hancock , Luffy and the Kuja tribe go their separate ways and he confronts the Fake Straw Hats . At Shakky 's bar , Sanji thanks Duval for his efforts in protecting the Thousand Sunny . Rayleigh tells the cook that he was the seventh to come here . However , Luffy and Robin have not shown up yet . Chopper discovers another group of Fake Straw Hats and follows them , not realizing that they are the fake ones . While Robin continues to evade the government agents from capturing her , Luffy uses his Haki techniques to defeat Fake Luffy 's group . Meanwhile , the government agents capture the Fake Robin . Sanji learns about what has happened to Zoro from a fisherman . While talking to the fisherman , Sanji finally discovers Zoro as he destroys the ship he was in . 519 `` The Navy Has Set Out ! The Straw Hats in Danger ! '' `` Kaigun Shutsudō - Nerawareta Mugiwara no Ichimi '' ( 海軍 出動 狙 われ た 麦わら の 一味 ) October 16 , 2011 Robin finally makes it to the Thousand Sunny and reunites with Franky . The archaeologist reveals to Franky that she is the eighth person who saw Rayleigh , as Luffy has yet to appear . Meanwhile , Chopper learns that he is the real one while discussing with the Fake Straw Hats and it is revealed that the Fake Straw Hats have recruited more than 100 pirates to their crew . At a Marine base , Sentomaru and the Pacifistas depart for the Sabaody Archipelago in response to Luffy 's return . At a fashion shop , Nami buys clothes for 90 % discounts and Sanji and Zoro walk around town . Chopper chases after the Fake Robin , but Nami and Usopp find him . Chopper finally realizes that the real Nami has arrived and the three depart for the Thousand Sunny . The Marines encounter a group of pirates gathered for Fake Luffy 's arrival , including Caribou and Coribou . 520 `` Big Guns Assembled ! The Danger of the Fake Straw Hats ! '' `` Ōmono Shūketsu - Nise Mugiwara Ichimi no Kyōi '' ( 大物 集結 ニセ 麦わら 一味 の 脅威 ) October 23 , 2011 At the Sabao Dome , Brook finishes his song . Meanwhile , Caribou frightens a Marine , digging a live grave with Coribou , and Fake Luffy rallies the pirates . However , the real Luffy gets caught up in the situation . Meanwhile , Brook is confronted by the Marines and his managers . At the Thousand Sunny , Usopp and Chopper reunite with Franky . The shipwright then reveals that not only did he create a new version of himself , but he can change his hairstyle by pushing his nose , while Nami boards the ship . Upon her arrival , Rayleigh and Shakky inform the others about what has happened . Meanwhile , Brook informs everyone that Luffy is alive and performs a new song before departing . Rayleigh instructs Nami about how to control the ship and Shakky reveals that she wiretapped the Transponder Snails . Rayleigh says that Luffy will be arriving soon ; the Straw Hats and Shakky join him in awaiting Luffy 's arrival . 521 `` The Battle is on ! Show Them What You Got From Training ! '' `` Sentō Kaishi ! Misero Shugyō no Seika ! '' ( 戦闘 開始 ! 見せろ 修行 の 成果 ! ) October 30 , 2011 After Brook escapes from the Marines at the Sabao Dome with a Rosy Life Rider , a riot is going on in the dome . Meanwhile , Luffy is caught before the Fake Straw Hats . However , the Marines confront them just as Caribou kills the injured Marine . Caribou refuses to cooperate with Fake Luffy and the Fake Straw Hats battle the Marines . The Pacifistas appear to defeat the Fake Straw Hats and discovers the real Luffy and knocks down Doughty . Sentomaru catches the Fake Straw Hats , and promptly defeats the Fake Luffy , exposing him as Demalo Black . Just as Luffy reveals himself as the real one and destroys PX - 5 with his new abilities , Sanji and Zoro reunite with Luffy and destroys PX - 7 together . When Luffy , Zoro and Sanji meet up with Rayleigh , Luffy proclaims that he will become King of the Pirates . 522 `` Everyone Together ! Luffy , Setting Out for the New World ! '' `` Zen'in Shūgō - Rufi Shin Sekai e no Funade '' ( 全員 集合 ルフィ 新 世界 へ の 船出 ) November 6 , 2011 After Luffy and Rayleigh go their separate ways , Rayleigh draws a line to prevent the Marines from coming any further to the Straw Hats . However , Perona appears and it is revealed that a battleship is headed for the Thousand Sunny . Meanwhile , Brook boards the Thousand Sunny . Using one of his birds , Chopper returns to the Thousand Sunny with Sanji , Luffy and Zoro on board , but as soon as they finally reunite , the Thousand Sunny is attacked . Hancock stops the Marines from harming the Straw Hats and Sanji is dismayed at Luffy for befriending the Snake Princess . Meanwhile , Heracles uses his beetles to crush a Marine squadron , Haredas uses the weather technology to distract another squadron . Franky goes underwater and uses the airbag to create a bubble to prepare the ship for the deep oceans . Chopper 's bird attacks another battleship , Sanji destroys another ship by deflecting a cannonball and the Okamas defeat another Marine squadron . Luffy and the others finally leave the Sabaody Archipelago for Fishman Island . 523 `` A Surprising Fact ! The Man Who Guarded the Sunny ! '' `` Kyōgaku no Shinjitsu - Sanī - gō o Mamotta Otoko '' ( 驚愕 の 真実 サニー 号 を 守っ た 男 ) November 13 , 2011 At the Sabaody Archipelago , Caribou has his men bury the Fake Straw Hats and departs to find the real Straw Hats . Rayleigh remembers that Luffy 's Straw Hat actually belonged to Roger when they first met decades earlier . Meanwhile , the Straw Hats explore the vast regions of the deep ocean . Nami reveals that if too many holes are created , the coating will burst and destroy the ship . Franky reveals that Hatchan was taken to Fishman Island , as he was seriously injured when the Marines tried to claim the Thousand Sunny . It is also revealed that Kuma informed Rayleigh that he sent them away to help the Straw Hats , as he is a revolutionary . Kuma was eventually reprogrammed to protect the Thousand Sunny until the Straw Hats ' arrival at Sabaody . The Straw Hats soon realize that they are being followed by Caribou . Using Mohmoo , the sea cow that used to belong to Arlong , as a steed , Caribou and his men prepare to launch a preemptive strike . 524 `` Deadly Combat under the Sea ! The Demon of the Ocean Strikes ! '' `` Kaichū no Shitō - Arawareta Ōunabara no Akuma '' ( 海中 の 死闘 現れ た 大 海原 の 悪魔 ) November 20 , 2011 After ramming his ship into the Thousand Sunny , Caribou orders his men to attack , but Mohmoo , frightened by Luffy 's and Sanji 's appearance , flees with Caribou 's crew . The Straw Hats capture Caribou while introducing himself . Nami tells the others if a ship goes straight , it can be destroyed by a volcano or crash into a mountain and Usopp clarifies that the Grand Line 's currents can be very dangerous . Nami has the others put on jackets due to the deep sea 's extreme cold temperatures . It is also revealed that the sea levels can be referred to as the Deep Currents . Just as they discuss about the currents , the ship heads straight for the Downward Plume , a massive undersea waterfall . However , they notice a large Kraken crushing ships for years and it destroys Caribou 's ship , seemingly killing his crew . When Luffy prepares to attack the Kraken , Caribou has Luffy , Zoro and Sanji put on the Flutter Kick Coating suits , allowing them to exit the bubble . Chopper uses his Guard Point technique and Robin uses her Mil Fleur : Gigantesco Mano technique to prevent the ship from taking any damage while Luffy , Zoro and Sanji prepare to attack . 525 `` Lost in the Deep Sea ! The Straw Hats Get Separated ! '' `` Shinkai de Sōnan - Hagureta Mugiwara no Ichimi '' ( 深海 で 遭難 逸れ た 麦わら の 一味 ) November 27 , 2011 Sanji uses his Bien Cuit Grill Shot technique to burn a tentacle and Zoro cuts off one of his arms , allowing Luffy to use the Gum - Gum Elephant Gun technique on the Kraken - defeating it . However , Luffy , Zoro and Sanji gets sucked into a vortex , dragging the Thousand Sunny with it as it descends further into the sea . When Brook discovers that Caribou is on board , Franky confines him in a barrel . Nami tells the others that they entered a zone containing volcanic eruptions , and if it erupts , the Straw Hats will perish . Franky uses the Coup de Burst to travel farther into the ocean . Franky realizes that with each Coup de Burst , the crew has lost a large amount of air . As they are attacked by Ankoro , an anglerfish , a sea bonze named Wadatsumi hits Ankoro . Just as the crew thinks they are saved , a ship known as the Flying Dutchman appears , much to their horror . 526 `` Undersea Volcanic Eruption ! Drifting to the Fish - Man Island ! '' `` Kaitei Kazan Funka ! Nagasarete Gyojin - tō '' ( 海底 火山 噴火 ! 流 され て 魚 人 島 ) December 4 , 2011 The captain of the Flying Dutchman reveals himself as Vander Decken IX . He orders Wadatsumi and Ankoro to kill the Straw Hats . Franky realizes that he can not use the Coup de Burst to flee , as the Thousand Sunny will run out of fuel . However , Luffy , Sanji and Zoro arrive with the Kraken , who was named Surume , and rescues the others by defeating Wadatsumi . However , a volcanic eruption causes Decken and his crew to flee . Using Surume as a guide , the Straw Hats go even deeper into the sea . Despite Usopp use of the Green Star : Sargasso technique to stop the avalanche , Surume is knocked out and the crew descends 10,000 meters below . The Straw Hats are eventually cornered by another fishman crew . 527 `` Landing at the Fish - Man Island ! Beautiful Mermaids ! '' `` Gyojin - tō Jōriku - Uruwashiki Ningyo - tachi '' ( 魚 人 島 上陸 うるわしき 人魚 たち ) December 11 , 2011 One of the fishmen surrounding the Straw Hats says that his name is Hammond and he is a member of the New Fishman Pirates . He offers Luffy to join them , but is turned down . Meanwhile , the others use one final Coup De Burst on the Thousand Sunny to flee from the fishmen and arrive to Fishman Island . Upon their arrival , the bubble finally breaks , causing the ship to enter the island and the crew to be separated once again . Luffy , Usopp , Sanji and Chopper awaken in a room and reunite with Camie . Camie reveals that not only is Hatchan recuperating from his injuries , but Pappagu is now a fashion designer at the district of Gyoverly Hills . The five travel to the district together and meet the local mermaids , much to Sanji 's happiness . Meanwhile , Hammond is ordered by his captain Hordy Jones to bring Luffy to him . 528 `` Excitement Blow - out ! Sanji 's Life Under Threat ! '' `` Kōfun Bakuhatsu ! Sanji Seimei no Kiki ! '' ( 興奮 爆発 ! サンジ 生命 の 危機 ! ) December 18 , 2011 Nami has survived by landing on another part of Fishman Island . Using his Coup De Vent technique , Franky rescues Robin and regroups with Nami . Meanwhile , the five Medaka Mermaid Quintuplets inform the others that a royal ship is arriving . When the royal ship finally arrives with the three princes Fukaboshi , Manboshi and Ryuboshi , Sanji is forced to hide from them . However , Sanji suffers a nosebleed again , rendering him unconscious , and the three princes have the Ammo Knights attack Luffy and the others . Meanwhile , Zoro awakens in another part of the island and are suddenly confronted with another group of the Ammo Knights . When Chopper asks the others if the fishmen can donate blood to Sanji , Hammond and the others appear and refuse his offer . Using Gear Second , Luffy attacks the pirates and uses his Haki technique on the Sea King . Luffy , Keimi and the others depart with the royal princes ' ship . Fukaboshi tells the mermaids that Luffy is a well - known pirate , as he can not go through immigration , and they were going to give Jimbei 's message before Luffy departed . 529 `` The Fish - Man Island Will Be Annihilated ? ! Sharley 's Prophecy ! '' `` Gyojin - tō Metsubō ! ? Shārī no Yogen '' ( 魚 人 島 滅亡 ! ? シャーリー の 予言 ) December 25 , 2011 Sanji is given a transfusion from two okamas on the Mermaid Cafe , a local restaurant in the port town of Coral Hill . Chopper reveals that not only has Luffy was poisoned , but thanks to the captain 's battle with Magellan , he has built up an immunity to it . Meanwhile , Camie asks Madame Shirley , a fortune teller and proprietor of the restaurant , about Sanji and has Luffy and Usopp enter her room . It is revealed that Sharley has predicted the Great Pirate Era and the past wars , including the death of Whitebeard . Later , the Straw Hats reunite with Brook and Pappagu . It is also revealed that Vander Decken had sent a letter once a week to the Princess . As a result , Neptune and his sons formed an army and have been finding Vander Decken for years . When Luffy asks about the candy factory nearby , he learns that the island is under the protection of Big Mam since Whitebeard 's death . Meanwhile , Sharley is dismayed about her prediction that the island will be eventually destroyed by Luffy . 530 `` The King of the Fish - Man Island ! Neptune , the God of the Sea ! '' `` Gyojin - tō no Ō - Kaishin Nepuchūn ! '' ( 魚 人 島 の 王 海神 ネプチューン ! ) January 8 , 2012 In the open sea , Gyro remembers the time when he was attacked by the New Fishman Pirates and vowing never to return to Fishman Island . Meanwhile , on Fishman Island , Nami reunites with Luffy , Camie , Pappagu , Usopp , and Brook and the crew gets free merchandise from Pappagu 's shop . Neptune , the island 's king , appears with his whale Hoe and the shark Megalo before them . When Neptune offers the pirates to go to the Ryugu Palace for a banquet , they accept and depart for the palace . Meanwhile , Hordy uses Energy Steroids to destroy Gyro 's ship with only his jaws while his hands were cuffed together . Zeo , another one of Hordy 's subordinates , reveals that fishmen have 10 times the strength as humans and an Energy Steroid increases their powers double that for each pill they take . It is also revealed that the humans destroyed the wills of both Fisher Tiger and Arlong . He has his crew go to the island to kill Neptune and make the fishman a superior race . 531 `` Ryugu Palace ! Taken by the Shark that They Saved ! '' `` Ryūgū - jō ! Tasuketa Same ni Tsurerarete '' ( 竜 宮城 ! 助け た 鮫 に 連れ られ て ) January 15 , 2012 On Fishman Island , Caribou breaks out of the barrel and traps Ishilly and the mermaids with his Swamp - Swamp Fruit powers . Fukaboshi learns that Sharley did have a vision of Luffy destroying the island , and tells the fortune teller that he must deal with the Straw Hats at once . Meanwhile , the Straw Hats finally reach Ryugu Palace for their banquet . While there , Nami reveals that Robin is looking for clues on an important history and Franky is searching for Tom 's relative . Neptune reveals that Fishman Island is powered by the roots of the Sunlight Tree Eve and also supply air to the ocean . The Ministers of the Left and Right , the king 's advisors , scold him for leaving the palace unharmed and tells the Straw Hats that they received a message from Fukaboshi . Meanwhile , Luffy goes into the castle 's hard - shell tower , discovering food there . However , while running towards it , he unknowingly stumbles upon a gigantic mermaid princess . The princess confronts Luffy , saying that she is not afraid as she is the daughter of King Neptune , before bursting into tears . 532 `` A Coward and a Crybaby ! The Princess in the Hard Shell Tower ! '' `` Yowamushi de Nakimushi ! Kōkakutō no Ningyo - hime '' ( 弱虫 で 泣き虫 ! 硬 殻 塔 の 人魚 姫 ) January 22 , 2012 On the sea floor , Vander Decken IX reveals that he plans to marry the princess , using his Mark - Mark Fruit curse to throw a giant axe at her . Meanwhile , at Ryugu Palace , the Minister of the Left accuses the Straw Hats for the conspiracy of destroying the Island and kidnapping the mermaids . Luffy saves the princess by stopping the axe . When the palace guards rush in , the princess hides Luffy and is told that the Straw Hat Pirates will be detained in the castle 's dungeons , as Zoro has been captured . The princess apologizes for her rudeness and allows Luffy to eat her food , revealing that her name is Shirahoshi . She then reveals that she was in the tower for 10 years . After being accidentally insulted by Luffy , Shirahoshi reveals that she wants to see a lot of places and Luffy immediately orders her to leave with him . Meanwhile , Nami , Usopp and Brook confront the palace guards just as Zoro , who has escaped from the guards , arrives . On the Noah , Decken meets Hordy , and the two fishmen form an alliance to plot the complete destruction of Fishman Island . 533 `` It 's an Emergency ! The Ryugu Palace is Occupied ! '' `` Kinkyū Jitai Hassei - Senkyo Sareta Ryūgū - jō '' ( 緊急 事態 発生 占拠 され た 竜 宮城 ) January 29 , 2012 At the Ryugu Palace , Nami , Usopp , Brook and Zoro tie up King Neptune , the Ministers and the palace guards . They have an argument over whether their next plan should be . However , Nami reveals that she drained the water in the palace . Just as the Minister of the Left tries to plea with Nami about the Log Pose , the princes arrive and meet up with the others . Fukaboshi tells Zoro and the others to round up the remaining crew members and tells the Straw Hats to get out as quickly as possible . Furthermore , it is revealed that Jimbei 's message is that the pirates must not fight Hordy . Meanwhile , Luffy and Shirahoshi decide to go out of the palace together to visit the Sea Forest just as Decken reveals himself to Neptune . Using Megalo , Luffy and Shirahoshi flee the palace and kick Decken 's pirates out of the way , much to the surprise of Minister of the Right and Brook . 534 `` The Ryugu Palace in Shock ! The Kidnapping of Shirahoshi ! '' `` Ryūgū - Jō Gekishin ! Shirahoshi Yūkai Jiken '' ( 竜 宮城 激震 ! しら ほし 誘拐 事件 ) February 5 , 2012 On the southeastern part of the Fishman Island , Franky and Tom 's brother Den discuss about the Thousand Sunny and discovers that ships are swept away into the tides , ending up at the Sea Forest , where the ship is possibly located . At the Ryugu Palace , Shirahoshi and Luffy flee the Hard Shell Tower for the Sea Forest . Meanwhile , on the Noah , Hachi discovers that Hordy wants to seek revenge against Luffy for destroying Arlong 's ambitions and will continue his will . Decken throws a knife through Hachi 's back . Hachi is forced to go back to the Fishman Island , but gets shot by Decken 's water arrows . Hordy rallies his troops to go into the Ryugu Palace . At Coral Hill , Sanji easily confronts and takes down the island 's soldiers , much to Chopper 's astonishment . The two discover Hachi , who informs them that Hordy will invade the palace before being rendered unconscious . Back at the Ryugu Palace , Brook and the Minister of the Right inform everyone about the invasion just as Hordy 's men confront the Straw Hats and Neptune . Meanwhile , Luffy and Shirahoshi discuss about visiting her mother Otohime 's grave in the Sea Forest . At the gravesite , Jinbei pays his respects to Otohime , saying that he never forgets her ideals . 535 `` Hordy 's Onslaught ! The Retaliatory Plan Set Into Motion ! '' `` Hōdi Shūrai - Fukushū Keikaku no Hajimari '' ( ホーディ 襲来 復讐 計画 の 始まり ) February 12 , 2012 On Coral Hill , Hordy remarks that this will be the last day of the Ryugu Kingdom as the fishmen are here to drive the humans out of the island . Meanwhile , Robin dispatches a group of armed guards at a bus stop before fleeing to find the ancient Poneglyph connected to the true history . At the Ryugu Palace , Neptune reveals that Shirahoshi used Megalo to hide inside and Nami tells Neptune that they will never kidnap a princess . However Neptune can not return the Thousand Sunny and the rest of the crew to her if she does not return safely . At the Sea Forest , Franky and Den discover the Thousand Sunny and Den reveals that he has been researching the forest . Meanwhile , Hordy and Decken finally arrive at the palace . When Decken uproots a coral and sends it off to find Shirahoshi , Decken threatens to kill the princess if she becomes another person 's wife . 536 `` The Battle in the Ryugu Palace ! Zoro vs. Hordy ! '' `` Ryūgū - jō no Kessen ! Zoro tai Hōdi '' ( 竜 宮城 の 決戦 ! ゾロ VS ホーディ ) February 19 , 2012 At the Ryugu Palace , Hordy says that he will destroy Neptune 's soldiers and realize Arlong 's ambitions once again . He proceeds to destroy the palace by flooding it . Zoro confronts Hordy underwater , but the fishman uses his own man to prevent his attack . Zoro has Usopp and Brook untie the guards while he continues to fight Hordy . Meanwhile , while healing Hachi , Sanji and Chopper are cornered by the island 's guards again . Just as Sanji says that they have been framed for their crimes , Luffy and Shirahoshi arrive and regroup with the others . The citizens of the island think that Luffy is responsible for the kidnapping . However , Megalo has reached its limit and forces Shirahoshi out . Chopper orders Sanji not to turn around or he will die . 537 `` Keep Shirahoshi Safe ! Decken Close Behind ! '' `` Shirahoshi o Mamore - Dekken no Tsuigeki '' ( しら ほし を 守れ デッケン の 追撃 ) February 26 , 2012 The citizens of Fishman Island are left in a panic that Shirahoshi has been kidnapped by Luffy . Despite Chopper 's protests , Sanji finally turns around and is petrified . Oblivious to Decken 's invasion , the fishmen tie up Luffy , but Decken arrives and confronts Shirahoshi . When Shirahoshi rejects Decken 's proposal , saying that he is not her type , Decken attacks her . Vowing to protect Shirahoshi , Luffy confronts Decken to the astonishment of the island 's citizens and Sanji returns to normal . Luffy finally knocks out Decken with his Gum Gum Jet Hammer technique before the group flees to the Sea Forest . Meanwhile , Nami and Camie flee the Ryugu Palace and also head for the Sea Forest . At the Ryugu Palace , Zoro uses his Lion Strike technique on Hordy and seemingly defeats him . 538 `` The Straw Hats Defeated ? ! Hordy Gains Control of the Ryugu Palace ! '' `` Ichimi Haiboku ! ? Hōdi Ryūgū - jō Seiatsu '' ( 一味 敗北 ! ? ホーディ 竜 宮城 制圧 ) March 4 , 2012 After Zoro renders Hordy unconscious , a fishman has his captain take an Energy Steroid and attack the group again . In an attempt to flee the palace with Zoro , Usopp and Brook , Neptune uses Hoe , but Hordy captures the group . Meanwhile , Luffy , Shirahoshi , Hatchan , Sanji , Megalo and Chopper finally reach the Sea Forest . The group reunites with Jimbei , Nami and Franky ; Jimbei is horrified that Shirahoshi has left the palace . It is revealed that Den is Tom 's relative and has accepted Franky 's offer to coat the Thousand Sunny . When Luffy discovers Otohime 's grave , Jimbei reveals that Shirahoshi could not go to her mother 's funeral , as she had encountered the poison from Decken . Jimbei learns about the current situation at Ryugu Palace and reveals that he has sent Arlong out into the East Blue eleven years earlier to Nami 's horror . 539 `` The Haunting Ties ! Nami and the Fish - Man Pirates ! '' `` Yomigaeru In'nen ! Nami to Gyojin kaizoku - dan '' ( 蘇る 因縁 ! ナミ と 魚 人 海賊 団 ! ) March 18 , 2012 On Fishman Island , Ikaros orders the citizens to step on Otohime 's portrait , Daruma chomps his way through the island 's candy factory , Zeo and Hyozo threaten the citizens to leave if they do not step on the portrait . Meanwhile , Fukaboshi confronts Dosun to the crowd 's excitement . At the Sea Forest , Nami discovers that Arlong Park is the same as Sabaody Park . Sanji forewarns Jimbei that he might not forgive the fishman due to what Arlong did to Nami as well as his suspicions of Arlong 's similarities . It is revealed that the Ryugu Kingdom has suffered discrimination from humans and fishmen . He also reveals that he worked for the Sun Pirates ' captain Fisher Tiger , who along with Otohime , sought peace between fishmen and humans . 540 `` A Hero Who Freed the Slaves ! An Adventurer Tiger ! '' `` Dorei Kaihō no Eiyū - Bōkenka Taigā '' ( 奴隷 解放 の 英雄 冒険 家 タイガー ) March 25 , 2012 A flashback of Tiger and Jimbei 's life is shown . Sixteen years before the Straw Hats enter Fishman Island , Queen Otohime confronts a thief . However , her hand is seriously injured . Despite this , Otohime berates the thief for raising children on the money that he has stolen and makes him promise to become a better man . Otohime announces that the Ryugu Kingdom must surface and unsuccessfully tries to sign a petition for equality between humans and fishmen . Meanwhile , Arlong and Jimbei have a disagreement over Otohime 's intentions just as Tiger arrives . Later , Tiger becomes an adventurer , Arlong goes up to the surface , Macro becomes a slave trader and Jimbei joins the army . As Tiger arrives back from Mariejois , the four form the Sun Pirates , who soon become known to fight Marines and considers freeing enslaved people as crimes . 541 `` Kizaru Appears ! A Trap to Catch Tiger ! '' `` Kizaru Tōjō ! Taigā o Nerau Wana ! '' ( 黄 猿 登場 ! タイガー を 狙う 罠 ! ) April 1 , 2012 At Fishman Island , everyone celebrates Tiger 's attack on Mariejois . Hordy , however , cheers them on for their goal to kill humans . Meanwhile , despite Tiger 's objections , Arlong kills a human for stating that it is sinful to kill one . Tiger informs everyone that killing them would be bad as humans , and even further , reveals that the Sun Pirates are about freedom and liberation . Arlong , however , states that they should kill humans and make an example out of them , but Jimbei knocks him out . Otohime gains support for her petition and Tiger obtains a bounty on his head . Three years later , Tiger is asked to take Koala , a young slave girl , but Arlong attacks her . Tiger gives Koala the mark of the Sun Pirates and tells her that his crew will take her home . 542 `` A Team is Formed ! Save Chopper '' `` Chīmu Kessei ! Choppā o Sukue '' ( チーム 結成 ! チョッパー を 救え ) April 8 , 2012 On an unnamed island , Toriko and Komatsu catch and defeat a Harusame . Luffy comes out of the Harusame 's mouth and meets Toriko and Komatsu once again . However , the Thousand Sunny arrives and Toriko and Komatsu find out that Chopper is sick . They decide to find the Seafood Fruit and make Chopper eat it to heal the reindeer . Luffy , Toriko and the Straw Hats head off to To - Chuka Island to find the fruit . 543 `` The Death of a Hero ! A Shocking Truth of Tiger ! '' `` Eiyū no Saigo - Taigā Shōgeki no Shinjitsu '' ( 英雄 の 最期 タイガー 衝撃 の 真実 ) April 15 , 2012 On the Sun Pirates ' ship , Aladdin , the crew 's doctor , allows Hatchan to let Koala do as she pleases , but Arlong tells her that he wants to kill the girl . It is revealed to Jimbei that humans do not know anything about fishmen . Overtime , Koala bonds with the Sun Pirates . Three weeks later , they arrive at her homeland , Foulshoot Island . Koala reunites with her mother and bids farewell to Tiger and his crew . However , a group of Marines led by Strawberry appear and wound Tiger , giving him seconds to live . At the sick bay , Tiger tells his crew that he will not allow human blood to be donated to him . Before his death , Tiger informs the Sun Pirates that he was never on a voyage and stayed at Mariejois as a slave ; he begs them not to reveal what happened at Mariejois . 544 `` The Sun Pirates Split ! Jimbei vs Arlong ! '' `` Kaizokudan Bunretsu - Jinbē tai Āron '' ( 海賊 団 分裂 ジンベエ VS アーロン ) April 22 , 2012 Outraged after witnessing the death of Tiger , Arlong returns to Foulshoot Island to kill the humans , but Borsalino apprehends Arlong . The humans take credit for Tiger 's death to protect Tiger 's reputation and pride . Otohime , meanwhile , decides to continue her campaign for equality and freedom . When the World Government offers Jimbei to join the Seven Warlords of the Sea to promote peace for the island . Hordy , however , is dissatisfied with Jimbei 's actions . Jimbei has Arlong released from Impel Down . Arlong reveals that he is a dog of the World Government , and Jimbei fights him . However , he is unable to kill Arlong due to their time together . Arlong and Macro go their separate ways to form their own crews . 545 `` Shaking Fish - Man Island ! A Celestial Dragon Drifts In ! '' `` Yureru Gyojin - tō ! Hyōchakushita Tenryūbito '' ( 揺れる 魚 人 島 ! 漂着 した 天竜 人 ) April 29 , 2012 The Sun Pirates go their separate ways after Jimbei becomes a Warlord . Otohime , however is determined that these actions would to help her cause . A few days later , Mjosgard , a Celestial Dragon , arrives on the island and the islanders are angered by their appearance . One of the former Sun Pirates attempts to kill Mjosgard , but Otohime stops them . The queen forewarns everyone that they must not pass the hatred to their children . However , Mjosgard threatens the Queen . Shirahoshi unknowingly uses her power to summon the Sea Kings and save her mother . After Mjosgard is healed by Aladdin , Otohime decides to go to the surface to negotiate with him . Just before she leaves , she reassures to the island 's citizens that everything will be all right . 546 `` A Sudden Tragedy ! A Gunshot Shuts Down the Future ! '' `` Totsuzen no Higeki ! Mirai o Tozasu Kyōdan '' ( 突然 の 悲劇 ! 未来 を 閉ざす 凶弾 ) May 6 , 2012 At the Ryugu Palace , Vander Decken proposes to marry her by using the Tamatebako in an attempt to make Shirahoshi age . Otohime returns to Fishman Island with a signed paper from the Celestial Dragons supporting her cause . The queen persuades the island 's residence to sign her petition . She later tells Fukaboshi , Manboshi and Ryuboshi that the one who called the Sea Kings was Shirahoshi , and she can not control this ability yet . The queen has the three brothers promise that they would protect their sister at all costs . Later , most of the signatures are burned . Just as Otohime attempts to save the rest of the signatures , however , she gets shot through the heart by Hordy , killing her . Before succumbing to her wounds , the queen requests her family will not resent the assassin and have bravery to achieve their goal . 547 `` Back to the Present ! Hordy Makes a Move ! '' `` Futatabi Genzai e ! Ugokidasu Hōdi '' ( 再び 現在 へ ! 動き出す ホーディ ) May 13 , 2012 Following Otohime 's death , Hordy kills a human pirate and convinces the citizens that the human is responsible for killing the queen . Meanwhile , Neptune locks himself up in the Hard - Shell Tower . When Shirahoshi receives a love letter from Decken days later , the king orders his guards to look for him . As the fishmen gather at the queen 's funeral , Fukaboshi appears on the Visual Transponder Snail and tells them that they will continue to fight discrimination . In the present day , it is revealed that Jimbei could not stop Arlong 's tyranny in the East Blue . Sanji confronts Jimbei over what happened in the East Blue , ordering him to commit suicide . However , Nami reminds Sanji that Jimbei means no harm and forgives Jimbei , as she has no resentment towards fishmen except Arlong . Later Hatchan reveals that Hordy will kill any fishman who is affiliated with humans just as the fishman begins to broadcast his message via the Visual Transponder Snail . 548 `` The Kingdom in Shock ! An Order to Execute Neptune Issued ! '' `` Ōkoku Gekishin - Nepuchūn Shokei Shirei '' ( 王国 激震 ネプチューン 処刑 指令 ) May 20 , 2012 Hordy announces that any fishman who is associated with humans will be exiled from the island and everyone is to migrate to the surface , leaving the people of Fishman Island in a panic . He also announces that in three hours , Hordy will execute King Neptune . Using the box containing the petition signatures , Hordy also reveals that he will kill every single person who signed the petition . Lastly , Hordy states that he will kill the Straw Hat Pirates , including Luffy , for crushing Arlong 's ambitions . At the Sea Forest , Robin examines a poneglyph containing an apology to Joy Boy . Upon hearing Hordy 's plans , Jimbei reveals to the Straw Hats that Shirahoshi is the real threat behind Hordy 's plan . Luffy and Shirahoshi prepare to go face Hordy and the New Fishman Pirates , but Jimbei stops the two . When Luffy tells Jimbei that he is going to save his crew no matter what , the fishman is forced to fight the Straw Hat captain . 549 `` A Rift Opens Up ! Luffy vs. Jimbei ! '' `` Shōjita Kiretsu ! Rufi tai Jinbē '' ( 生じ た 亀裂 ! ルフィ VS ジンベエ ) May 27 , 2012 At the Ryugu Palace , Usopp , Zoro and Brook conceive a plan to escape . Brook reveals that he can remove his soul from his body . Meanwhile , Luffy and Jimbei 's argument over who should fight Hordy leads to a struggle between the two . Using her Cuerpa Fleur technique , Robin returns to the Thousand Sunny , where she intervenes with Jimbei and Luffy 's duel and tells them not to fight . Meanwhile , Hordy plans to drown Zoro , Brook and Usopp but the cut he received from Zoro makes him take more pills . At the Sea Forest , Sanji reveals that both the other Straw Hats and the island 's citizens are in danger , and that the pirates should stay and fight . However , Luffy still insists on rescuing his crew and he and Jimbei resume their duel . 550 `` Something Has Happened to Hordy ! The True Power of the Evil Drug ! '' `` Hōdi no Ihen ! Kyōyaku no Shin no Chikara '' ( ホーディ の 異変 ! 凶 薬 の 真 の 力 ) June 3 , 2012 Hordy and his fishmen arrive at Conchcorde Plaza to execute Neptune . Meanwhile , Daruma chews through the Candy Factory , Hyozo drunkenly uses his swords to terrorize the fishmen and Zeo uses his camouflaging technique as the three head towards the plaza . On the Noah , Decken decides to shave off his head and decides to kill Shirahoshi . Meanwhile , on Fishman Island , Hordy demands more energy steroids . Fukaboshi , Manboshi and Ryuboshi begin to depart for the plaza . Upon taking more energy steroids , Hordy finally becomes muscular and his hair turns white as Neptune explains the drug 's side effects . He then displays his strength to the horror of the island 's citizens and army . 551 `` The Battle is on ! At Conchcorde Plaza ! '' `` Kessen Hajimaru - Gyonkorudo Hiroba '' ( 決戦 始まる ギョンコルド 広場 ) June 10 , 2012 Neptune 's army launches an offensive strike against Hordy , but they are completely wiped out and Hordy goes to Conchcorde Plaza . Meanwhile , at the Fishman District , Vander Decken is despondent at Sihrahoshi 's rejection and decides to kill her . Hordy is confronted by the army , but Ikaros uses a Sea Bear to attack . Meanwhile , Shirahoshi , Jimbei and Megalo leave the Sea Forest to confront Hordy . Fukaboshi , Manboshi , Ryuboshi arrive at the plaza to save their father . Upon their arrival , Fukaboshi lectures Hordy for trying to ignore the island 's history of discrimination . Hordy , however , has his beasts attack the princes and gives Energy Steroids to his crew . The princes are easily defeated and Hordy laughs as Neptune watches in horror . 552 `` Surprising Confession ! The Truth Behind the Assassination of Otohime ! '' `` Shōgeki no Kokuhaku - Otohime Ansatsu no Shinjitsu '' ( 衝撃 の 告白 オトヒメ 暗殺 の 真実 ) June 17 , 2012 On their way to defeat Hordy , Jimbei , Shirahoshi and Megalo are captured by Hordy 's forces . They are taken to Conchcorde Plaza just as the pirates tie up Neptune and the princes . When Shirley reveals to Hordy that Luffy will destroy Fishman Island , the fishman blasts her with a water bullet . He then reveals that he is responsible for assassinating Otohime and also framed a human pirate for it by having him burn the queen 's signatures and kill the pirate . The citizens are filled with horror at hearing the realization . When Hordy mocks Shirahoshi , the princess reveals that she knows the truth . Meanwhile , in a desperate attempt to kill Shirahoshi , Vander Decken sets the Noah on a collision course with Fishman Island , in an effort to destroy everything on it . 553 `` Shirahoshi 's Tears ! Luffy Finally Shows Up ! '' `` Shirahoshi no Namida ! Rufi Tsuini Tōjō '' ( しら ほしの 涙 ! ルフィ 遂に 登場 ) June 24 , 2012 Shirahoshi reveals that Megalo witnessed the assassination and told her about it . Hordy attacks Neptune and Fukaboshi , Manboshi and Ryuboshi . Shirley informs a group of children that her predictions do not give out dates and the citizens call for Luffy to destroy the island . Just when Hordy is about to kill Neptune , Megalo finally spits out Luffy . Luffy hits Hordy with a single kick in the chest . Using her Mirage Tempo technique , Nami grabs the Celestial Dragon 's letter and a group of keys to the royal family 's shackles . As Robin releases the royal family and Jimbei , Franky uses the Gaon Cannon on the New Fishmen Pirates and Hoe flees with the princes . The Straw Hats regroup and Luffy tells the island 's citizens to decide whether they are friend or foe . 554 `` A Great Clash ! The Straw Hat Crew vs. 100,000 Enemies '' `` Dai Gekitotsu ! Mugiwara Ichimi tai Jūman no Teki '' ( 大 激突 ! 麦わら 一味 VS10 万 の 敵 ) July 1 , 2012 The citizens marvel and celebrate at the arrival of the Straw Hats . Jimbei reveals that he made an agreement with Luffy to become the hero of the island , as he does not want Luffy to be an enemy . Brook , Zoro and Usopp reveal that they escaped from the palace with Pappagu . The rest of the New Fishman Pirates are not concerned with Hordy being hit by Luffy . Hordy seems to be not as harmed as he should have been . When Hordy mocks Luffy , saying that he will become the King of the Pirates , Luffy takes down half of Hordy 's forces of 50,000 with his Haki technique and tells the fishman that he will become the King of the Pirates . 555 `` Deadly Attacks One After Another ! Zoro and Sanji Join The Battle ! '' `` Ōwaza Sakuretsu ! Zoro Sanji Shutsugeki ! '' ( 大 技 炸裂 ! ゾロ ・ サンジ 出撃 ! ) July 8 , 2012 The Straw Hat Pirates begin their attack with Luffy , Zoro and Sanji taking the lead in the fight but mostly it is the latter two of the three who begin showing their new powers and abilities from their two - year separation and training . Zoro starts showing off his newly modified sword attacks while Sanji displays a more powerful style of kicking . 556 `` Unveiled ! The Secret Weapons of the Sunny ! '' `` Hatsu Hirō ! Sanī - gō no Himitsu Heiki ! '' ( 初 披露 ! サニー 号 の 秘密 兵器 ! ) July 15 , 2012 The battle rages on between the Straw Hats and the New Fishman Pirates . Sanji and Zoro are competing over who can take down the most fishmen . Franky decides that this is the perfect time to test out his new vehicles with Usopp , Chopper and Nami volunteering to be the pilots . Hordy , who is getting increasingly frustrated over seeing fishmen getting beaten by humans , orders his remaining men to attack Shirahoshi , but their attempts are thwarted by the efforts of Robin and Brook . Franky then comes riding out of the Thousand Sunny on his newest weapon , Kurosai FR - U IV and tramples many of the fishmen with it . Usopp , Chopper and Nami also arrive with another new weapon , Brachio Tank V and take down many of the large fishmen . Angered by these string of defeats , Hordy unleashes his trump card , Surume and orders it to attack Luffy . However , Luffy tames Surume again and orders it to protect Shirahoshi . Luffy then rejoins the fight . 557 `` Iron Pirate ! Here Comes General Franky ! '' `` Aian Pairētsu ! Furankī Shōgun Tōjō '' ( 鉄 の 海賊 ! フランキー 将軍 登場 ) July 29 , 2012 In Gyoncorde Plaza , the battle between the New Fishman Pirates and the Straw Hat Pirates continues , with the Straw Hats having gained the upper hand . Seeing this , Daruma decides to join the fight , targeting the Brachio Tank V and collapsing the ground underneath it . Upon Franky also driving the Kurosai FR - U IV into the same sinkhole , he decides to reveal that he can ' dock ' both new vehicles onto his body , turning him into the ' Iron Pirate ' Franky Shogun , much to the delight of Usopp , Chopper and Luffy . It is revealed that Hordy has been forcing Surume to follow his commands by threatening to kill his brother at the North Pole if he does not do as he says , and commands Surume to crush Shirahoshi . Surume originally obeys , before Luffy instead offers to save his brother , and heads towards Hordy to fight him . Ikaros and Dosun attempt to intercept Luffy , but are blocked by Zoro and Sanji , leaving Luffy to land a blow on Hordy . Meanwhile , the giant ship Noah came into full view of the island , shocking the citizens and King Neptune the most as it 's on a direct collision course with Fishman Island . 558 `` The Noah Closing in ! The Fish - Man Island Facing Destruction ! '' `` Noa Sekkin ! Gyojin - tō Kaimetsu no Kiki ! '' ( ノア 接近 ! 魚 人 島 壊滅 の 危機 ! ) August 5 , 2012 King Neptune watches in shock over the sight of the giant ship Noah as Fukaboshi asks what is so important about a relic of the past , but the king replies that the ship must not be damaged no matter what . Luffy and Hordy continue their fight with Luffy getting the upper hand with Haki and Hordy 's attacks being ineffective against Luffy . Then the ship Noah looms over the plaza and everyone who is fighting in the plaza now notice it . As the ship gets closer , Wadatsumi falls from the ship and onto the plaza . He shouts at Vander Decken to stop the ship or he 'll die . Vander then shouts out his desire to kill Shirahoshi and everyone in Fishman Island because of her rejection . Hordy is furious over Vander Decken 's betrayal . Shirahoshi is worried that the ship will kill everyone and so decides to use herself as a lure to divert Noah 's course away from Fishman Island . Luffy decides to follow her to protect her while Hordy grabs on to the giant chains to get revenge on his supposed ally . 559 `` Hurry up , Luffy ! Shirahoshi 's Life in Jeopardy ! '' `` Isoge Rufi ! Shirahoshi Zettai Zetsumei '' ( 急げ ルフィ ! しら ほし 絶対 絶命 ) August 12 , 2012 Shirahoshi begins swimming out to sea in an attempt to lure the ark Noah away and save Fishman Island , while Luffy gets Sanji 's help to allow him to reach the ship 's chains and stop Hordy . Shirahoshi then uses the palace gateway to leave the air bubble and swim out to open sea . Once the ship is at sea , Luffy is confronted by Hordy , where he realizes the extent of the disadvantage he has against a fishman in the sea . Hordy instantly bursts the bubble Luffy created with his bubble coral , but Luffy is saved from certain death when Fukaboshi intervenes . Meanwhile , Decken once again offers Shirahoshi his hand in marriage , and upon rejection , releases another barrage of attacks . These are all blocked by Manboshi , Ryuboshi and Hoe . Hordy 's Energy Steroids are allowing him to catch up with Luffy and Fukaboshi . Luffy asks to go to the deck of Noah , as there will be air for him to fight there , but Hordy gets there first and stabs Decken to destroy the island . 560 `` The Fierce Fight Begins ! Luffy vs. Hordy ! '' `` Sentō Kaishi ! Rufi tai Hōdi ! '' ( 戦闘 開始 ! ルフィ VS ホーディ ! ) August 19 , 2012 Hordy takes his trident out of Decken 's body and after a short fight , Decken is defeated . After that , Hordy goes after Shirahoshi , slicing through Ryuboshi and Manboshi and reaching her with the uncomparable underwater speed , grabbing her hair . Luffy attacks Hordy , and releases the princess . Zeo makes Wadatsumi think that he has to fight for the New Fishman Pirates in Gyoncorde Plaza . Wadatsumi defeats Surume and then as he attacks Jimbei and gets pushed back , he manages to bring down Nami , which gives Sanji a reason to attack him . Hyozo becomes stronger after eating too many Energy Steroids . He tries to attack Robin but Zoro jumps in front of him and stops his attack . 561 `` A Massive Confused Fight ! The Straw Hats vs. the New Fish - Man Pirates ! '' `` Dai - ransen ! Ichimi tai Shin Gyojin Kaizokudan ! '' ( 大 乱戦 ! 一味 VS 新 魚 人 海賊 団 ! ) August 26 , 2012 Luffy tries to protect Shirahoshi along with her three brothers helping also against Hordy Jones as the New Fishman Pirate Captain is hell bent on killing the Mermaid Princess but seems to have an ulterior motive as Vander Decken IX is slowly losing focus , consciousness and his grip on the powers that he wields that keeps the massive ship Noah ( after Decken 's near fatal injury from Hordy earlier ) from falling towards Fishman Islands and is going to kill its occupants . Meanwhile the other Straw Hats face off against the New Fishman Pirates officers who are equally eager to finish their opponents off as everyone prepares for the fight of their lives once again as the fate of the people of Fishman Island rests on the hands of Luffy and his crew . 562 `` Luffy Loses the Fight ? ! Hordy 's Long Awaited Revenge ! '' `` Rufi Haiboku ! ? Hōdi Fukushū no Toki '' ( ルフィ 敗北 ! ? ホーディ 復讐 の 時 ) September 2 , 2012 Vander Decken IX finally loses consciousness and the massive ship Noah starts to fall back slowly onto the fishman island . Fukaboshi distracts Hordy while Luffy and the mermaid princess try to get on the falling ship . Meanwhile , on Fukaboshi 's instructions , the palace guards start trying to cover Noah with a bubble of air to help Luffy fight Hordy . Fukaboshi gets defeated but manages to learn Hordy 's true identity beforehand . Hordy , to fight Luffy , eats more energy steroids and powers up even more . 563 `` A Shocking Fact ! The True Identity of Hordy ! '' `` Shōgeki no Jijitsu ! Hōdi no Shōtai ! '' ( 衝撃 の 事実 ! ホーディ の 正体 ! ) September 9 , 2012 On Fishman Island , Jimbei and Sanji continue to fight Wadatsumi and Wadatsumi becomes angry and inflates himself unknowingly crushing some of his allies . Sanji goads him into growing larger after saying he 's smaller than Surume . At that time , Neptune is greeted by some of his soldiers and the Minister of the Left and apologize for not protecting him . The Minister of the Right arrives at the plaza with some of the army and is informed of the situation and officially join the battle against the New Fishman Pirates allying themselves with the Straw Hats and Jimbei saying they have made a terrible mistake from blaming them . Hammond is using human pirates as slaves in his Slave Tank and Robin frees the slaves at Jimbei 's request . She easily defeats Hammond with her Double Clutch technique , breaking his back . The freed slaves them revolt against the New Fishman Pirates and ally with the crew . The Minister of the Left gets in touch with the Air Tank and is informed of the situation and order an immediate evacuation of the island . It is revealed that Hordy is a monster born from their environment . He states the officers are all the same and how their just monsters born of hatred born from their ancestors and they fear their hatred will one day fade and so will their hatred towards humans and want them to be evil to justify their actions not even wanting peace for Fishmen . He recalls what he asked what humans did to Hordy and Hordy answers `` nothing '' and that they 've been chosen by the heveans to punish humans and granted power . He goes on to state that their hatred is not from beliefs or experience but they 're nothing but empty opponents . At that time , Hordy laughs maniacally and with blood - shot eyes he charges at Luffy and Shirahoshi . 564 `` Back to Zero ! Earnest Wishes for Luffy ! '' `` Zero ni ! Rufi e no Atsuki Negai ! '' ( ゼロ に ! ルフィ へ の 熱き 願い ! ) September 16 , 2012 As Fukaboshi begins to state what Hordy really is , Hordy 's past is revealed as he recalls his hatred towards humans , the New Fishman Pirates officers are taught as kids that the humans are an inferior species and they should be punished by heaven . Hordy becomes a Neptune Army member and he and his crew commit crimes , celebrate the death of Otohime , and start producing Energy Steroids . Fukaboshi laments how his mother was killed by the hatred of the island and begs Luffy to bring it back to zero and Luffy says he will since he and his crew and Jimbei all agreed to that and that their friends . Luffy prepares to attack Hordy . Franky continues to fight Ikaros Much . Chopper continues to fight Dosun revealing his new Heavy point . Zoro continues to fight Hyouzou and is bored that Hyouzou ca n't even kill his boredom . 565 `` Luffy 's All - Out Attack ! Red Hawk Blasts ! '' `` Rufi Konshin no Ichigeki ! Reddo Hōku Sakuretsu '' ( ルフィ 渾身 の 一撃 ! 火 拳銃 炸裂 ) September 23 , 2012 As the fighting continues , Brook and Zeo continue their fight with Zeo landing an attack on Brook and decapcitating him . Celebrating his victory , Brook showcases a new ability being able to reattach his head so long his bones are not damaged . Brook further demonstrates his new sword , Soul Solid , being able to call forth the cold from the underworld . Usopp and Daruma continue as well with Usopp planting traps and promising to snipe him within three shots . Hordy continues to chase Shirahoshi and Luffy but a Gear Second Jet Bazooka is unable to defeat Hordy , the fishman laughs that everything he holds dear will be destroyed . Undeterred , Luffy prepares to attack Hordy , he enters Gear Second and imbues Busoshoku Haki into his arm , setting it on fire despite being underwater , and uses his Gum Gum Red Hawk technique , on Hordy with enough force to send the flames though his chest and blasting out of his back . The New Fishman Pirates are terrified to hear their captain was defeated but the officers force the others to stay and die for hatred . The rest of the Straw Hats continue fighting , meanwhile Luffy and Hordy are on Noah and Luffy sees Hordy overdosing on the Energy Steroids even more . 566 `` Coming To An End ! The Final Decisive Battle Against Hordy ! '' `` Tsui ni Ketchaku ! Hōdi Saishū Kessen '' ( ついに 決着 ! ホーディ 最終 決戦 ) September 30 , 2012 Hordy uses to the Energy Steroids to recover and overpowers Luffy , biting him again in the same spot . Luffy retorts with another Red Hawk , but Hordy is still standing . Chopper reveals he now only needs one Rumble Ball for his Monster Point , which he now has full control of . Usopp , Franky , Sanji and Jimbei prepare to end things with their opponents . Luffy attacks Hordy with Elephant Gun and finally defeats the fishman . Hordy wishes for the Noah to destroy the island and the Fishman who have lost their pride . Brook uses his sword to defeat Zeo , Usopp uses his Green Star techniques to defeat Daruma and Chopper uses his claws to defeat Dosun . Franky blasts Ikaros with his Franky Radical Beam technique . Jimbei sends Wadatsumi flying and Sanji finishes him off with his Hell Memories technique . Hyouzou attempts to attack Zoro from behind only for Zoro to counter and destroy his swords again and defeat him thinking he was a frog . Luffy uses his Elephant Gatling technique on the ship and Hordy is finally blasted out unconscious . Luffy prepares to destroy the ship to save everyone on the island . 567 `` Stop , Noah ! Desperate Elephant Gatling ! '' `` Tomare Noa ! Kesshi no Erefanto Gatoringu ! '' ( 止まれ ノア ! 決死 の 象 銃 乱打 ! ) October 7 , 2012 After defeating the New Fishman Pirates , the Straw Hat Pirates are relaxing and waiting for Luffy . The citizens of Fishman Island are cheering for him to destroy Noah and thus saving them . While some citizens evacuate the island , some recall how Whitebeard also saved the island at a point in the past and how Luffy reminds them of him . Luffy keeps attacking Noah intent on destroying it while Neptune laments being unable to keep the promise with Joy Boy stating there is no choice but to destroy it . As Luffy continues to destroy the Noah , Shirahoshi intervenes and successfully stops Luffy from destroying the ship . He realizes that Noah has been brought to a halt by a group of Sea Kings . Luffy is rendered unconscious from the wound and falls into the ship . The Sea Kings acknowledge the strength of Luffy 's will . Luffy has won , Noah has stopped and the battle is finally over . 568 `` To the Future ! The Path to the Sun ! '' `` Mirai e ! Taiyō e to Tsuzuku Michi ! '' ( 未来 へ ! タイヨウ へ と 続く 道 ! ) October 14 , 2012 Following Hordy 's defeat , Shirahoshi converses with the Sea Kings , who are surprised that Luffy is able to understand their conversation with Shirahoshi . They recall that Gold Roger was also able understand them as well . Manboshi , Fukaboshi and Rryuboshi capture the unconscious Hordy and his lieutenants . The kidnapped mermaids are found in Ryugu Palace ; however , the royal treasure is missing . All charges against the Straw Hats are dropped and are praised as heroes . Luffy , injured from his fight with Hordy , requires a blood transfusion . However , no one from the island is willing to help as he is a human . Jimbei volunteers , and organizes a new law for the fishmen . Jimbei saves Luffy 's life and the people are overjoyed . Luffy then offers Jimbei to join his crew . 569 `` The Secret Revealed ! The Truth about the Ancient Weapon ! '' `` Akasareta Himitsu - Kodai Heiki no Shinjitsu '' ( 明か され た 秘密 古代 兵器 の 真実 ) October 21 , 2012 As the whole island celebrates the capture and defeat of Hordy and his comrades by the Straw Hat Crew of whom make their own plans to leave Fishman Island soon while Jimbei reluctantly tells Luffy that he can not join his crew at the moment but he will in the future when he is finished with his tasks and obligations , They are all soon called to celebrate their victory at the Palace with merriment , music , drink and food . As the party begins to wind down Robin asks and discusses a troubling and possibly dangerous secret with King Neptune surrounding his daughter , Shirahoshi , the ship Noah and the mysterious Joy Boy . 570 `` The Straw Hats Stunned ! The New Fleet Admiral of the Navy ! '' `` Ichimi Kyōgaku ! Aratanaru Kaigun Gensui ! '' ( 一味 驚愕 ! 新た なる 海軍 元帥 ! ) October 28 , 2012 King Neptune talks about the Ancient Weapons and Shirahoshi being one of them to Robin while Caribou listens and makes way to Shirahoshi 's room to capture and sell her . Luffy regroups with the rest of the crew away from the party after Jimbei requested to talk with him and Jimbei explains that Akainu fought against Aokiji for the title of Fleet Admiral on a certain island . Akainu won the title and Aokiji left since he did n't want to work for Akainu . He also explains the two changes that happened in the new world after two years which is Akainu becoming fleet admiral and Marshall D. Teach taking all of Whitebeard 's territories and claiming the title of `` Yonko '' among Shanks , Charlotte Linlin and Kaido . Jimbei also claims that Blackbeard is searching for the strongest Devil Fruits so he can extract their abilities and claim them for his own use , with Chopper fearing that he 'll be targeted next and Usopp saying that Blackbeard would n't want his Human - Human fruit ability . Luffy does n't listen to Jimbei 's blabbing and Luffy sees Keimi and asks where Shirahoshi is and she says that she is in her room . Luffy senses a `` big animal '' in the palace so he calls Zoro and Sanji to come with him and they find Caribou using his Logia powers to capture Shirahoshi . Luffy kicks him out and Minister of the Right thanks him once again . Minister of the Right wonders why the tower has been cut into pieces and Pappug says that Zoro did it and Zoro gets mad . After hearing Minister of the Right say that Caribou had stolen all the treasure from the vault and that Neptune would give it all to them , Nami reprimands Luffy , Zoro , and Sanji for not tying Caribou up and angrily kicks them out to find him and get the treasure back . Meanwhile in Hordy 's cell , Hordy and his crew appear to be aged by the energy steroids that they used , which was later revealed to be aging pills , and still sought vengeance against the royal family , the Straw Hats , and humans . As everyone leaves Hordy 's cell , Hordy yells at Fukaboshi for `` betraying his kind . '' Fukaboshi answers by saying that he wo n't hold vengeance on Hordy for killing his mother and orders him to shut up so the children wo n't here him and be tainted by his evil . Soon , the Minister of the Left gets news that Baron Tamago and Pekoms , crew members of the Big Mom Pirates , are in Fishman Island going to receive the monthly payment of sweets . With the candy factory destroyed and all the excess candy given to the Straw Hats to eat at the banquet , the Fishman Island ca n't pay their monthly payment . The Minister of the Left then states that Big Mom destroys islands that do not give her candy . 571 `` She Loves Sweets ! Big Mom of the Four Emperors ! '' `` Okashi - zuki ! Yonkō Biggu Mamu '' ( お 菓子 好き ! 四 皇 ビッグマム ) November 4 , 2012 The rest of the Straw Hats are waiting for Luffy , Zoro , and Sanji to return with the treasure . Meanwhile , Pekoms and Tamago came for the candy but the Minister of the Left claims that here is no more candy and the factory machines have been destroyed by Hordy . Luffy , Zoro , and Sanji find Caribou and the treasure and start to carry the treasure back , searching for a ride back to Ryugu Palace . They find Pekoms and Tamago with the Minister of the Left . Luffy gets interested by Pekoms and Tamago 's looks and then realize they are part of Big Mom 's crew . Big Mom in the New World on Whole Cake Island is waiting for the candy from Fishman Island . Bobbin comes right after Big Mom eats some of her crewmates . Bobbin tells her that he destroyed an island and it smelled sweet when he did . She then learns that Fishman Island will not be giving her candy . She calls Tamago and Pekoms and they dare not answer so Luffy does . Luffy tells her that he ate the rest of the candy and he is willing to give the treasure to her for repayment . Big Mom refuses , stating that she ca n't eat treasure . Tamago steps in and tries to talk Big Mom into accepting Luffy 's offer in order to replace the ships that were lost after a run - in with Captain Kid . She refuses , saying that pirates do n't make deals and that she will go after Luffy in the new world instead of the Fishman Island . Luffy agrees to a fight with her and says that he will beat her up and claim Fishman Island as his own territory . 572 `` Many Problems Lie Ahead ! A Trap Awaiting in the New World ! '' `` Zento Tanan - Shin Sekai ni Machiukeru Wana '' ( 前途 多 難 新 世界 に 待ち受ける 罠 ) November 11 , 2012 During a check on the palace , the Minister of the Right gets a report that the Tamate Box is gone along with all the treasures and remembers something very important about it . Caribou starts searching for his treasure that he stole from the royal family after realizing it was taken after waking up from getting beat by Luffy . Jimbei and Neptune talk about how Jimbei might join the Straw Hats and putting a new pirate flag in Fishman Island which is the Straw Hat Pirate flag . Later , the Minister of the Right tells King Neptune that the Tamate Box is gone and it might explode in the hands of Luffy if he opens it . However , when Luffy returns , he announces that he gave all the treasure that he recovered to Pekoms and Baron Tamago , along with the tamate box , and tells everyone that he talked back to Big Mom . While Neptune and the Minister of the Right worry about the fate of the Straw Hats , and Nami beats Luffy up for giving away the treasure , Jimbei decides to cut off the alliance with Big Mom before things get ugly . Caribou finds Tamago and Pekoms with his treasure that he stole and attacks Pekoms with his Gatling Gun . Pekoms reveals himself to be a Zoan - type Devil Fruit user . Caribou then attempts to slice off Pekom 's head , saying that he was stronger because he was a logia - type devil fruit eater , only to get punched in the stomach by Pekoms , rendering him unconscious again . Pekoms and Tamago then leave Fishman island . It is later revealed that Smoker and Tashigi were reassigned to the G - 5 Marine Branch , the most ruthless marine branch that do n't even take orders from the HQ , and arrested a bunch of pirates emerging from Fishman Island , who tell Smoker that Luffy beat Hordy , with Smoker replying that he already knows and calls them idiots . 573 `` Finally Time to Go ! Goodbye , Fish - Man Island ! '' `` Tsui ni Shukkō ! Sayonara Gyojin - tō '' ( ついに 出航 ! さよなら 魚 人 島 ) November 18 , 2012 The mermaids and Keimi from the Mermaid Cafe ask Sharley if they can say farewell to the Straw Hats . Sharley says that her prediction that Luffy will destroy Fishman Island might not happen after all since they defeated Hordy and the New Fishman Pirates . However , Keimi fears that Madam Sharley still believes that Luffy will destroy the Fishman Island because she knows that her predictions are always right . Shirahoshi meanwhile is crying and asking the Straw Hats to not go . While Minister of the Right talks to Neptune about mentioning the exploding tamate box to the Straw Hats , Neptune points out that Usopp , Brook , and Chopper complain that they are going to die in the New World and that they should n't tell them more bad news , later having optimistic ideas about how Big Mom might not open it herself or that the explosives might not explode . The Minister of the Left gives Nami a new Log Pose with three needles so they can get to the islands in the New World . He explains that the new log pose takes in the magnetic waves of 3 surrounding islands and that the needle that moves the most is the direction of the most dangerous island . After hearing that , Nami , Chopper , and Usopp tell the Minister of the left to keep it down so Luffy does n't hear , which he evidently does . He then grabs onto Nami wanting to see the new Log Pose and says to go in the direction of the needle that moves the most , stating , `` that 's where the party is '' . Nami insists that she will tell the crew where to go . However , Luffy states that he should decide where they should go , as he is the captain . Franky gets a new haircut and they start to leave but Shirahoshi comes and ask them to pinky promise to come back and they did . The Straw Hats and the fishmen go their separate ways and Luffy remembers the times when Shanks , Rayleigh , Jimbei , and Ace told him something important . The Straw Hats then comment about what they will do once they are in the New World . 574 `` To the New World ! Heading for the Ultimate Sea ! '' `` Shin Sekai e ! Saikyō no Umi o Mezashite '' ( 新 世界 へ ! 最強 の 海 を めざし て ) November 25 , 2012 The Straw Hats are heading to the New World . Nami is taking a bath in the Thousand Sunny and Chopper comes in . Nami asks Chopper if he wants to join her in the bath and he says no claiming that he took one two days ago and the cloud reminds him of cotton candy . Sanji and Brook walk by and saw Nami taking a bath so they stare at her . Nami asked Chopper to move aside away from the cloud she made and the cloud electrified Sanji and Brook . Chopper claims he is scared and he wo n't eat the cloud . Meanwhile Luffy , Zoro , Usopp , Franky and Robin are hanging out . Luffy tells Usopp to hurry up with the fish hook because he wants to catch and eat a big fish . Robin says that Luffy and Usopp are having fun . Franky says he wants Cola with a big fish . Zoro says he wants to have a drink to celebrate entering the New World . Luffy , Zoro , and Usopp sees three big fish . Zoro wants to eat a fried fish with salt . Usopp wants a fish sliced up and grilled . Luffy wants a fish with mayonnaise . Usopp says which fish Luffy wants and claims that it is not edible . Luffy punches the fish with gear second and Usopp uses the fish hook to grab hold of it . The fish that they caught suddenly got ate by a bigger fish and Zoro uses 360 pound cannon killing it . Nami is still in the bath and she claims that the rest of the crew are making too much of a ruckus and that she should n't have trusted them in watching the ship for her . They suddenly got caught in a White Storm and Luffy claims it is the wormhole of his dreams and Usopp slaps him for saying that . Nami claims the crew to be stupid for getting into too much trouble while she was taking a bath . They get caught in the White Storm and they try to hang out to something so they wo n't fly out of the ship . They finally crash into a whale without noticing at first . Brook then claims that the whale is Laboon but they finally see a whole bunch of whales and the others claim that Laboon is not here but in the first half of the grand line . Sanji then says that they need to get out of there and asks Nami about what they should do . Nami says they do n't need to do anything and Sanji listened . The Straw Hats asked one of the whales to give them a ride to the surface of the New World . Brook sang a song for the whales so they can bring them to the surface . Before they got to the surface the Straw Hats remembered the times during their training to become stronger so they can regroup and head towards the New World . They finally surfaced and Thousand Sunny hopped off the whales and landed onto the ocean . The Straw Hats say goodbye to the whales and they see some ships claiming they are pirate ships but then they saw that the ships belong to the Marines . 575 `` Z 's Ambition ! Lily the Little Giant ! '' `` Zetto no Yabō Hen - Chiisana Kyojin Rirī ! '' ( Z の 野望 編 小さな 巨人 リリー ! ) December 2 , 2012 There is a whole fleet of Neo Marine ships , one of which houses Ain and Bins . The Straw Hats fight back against a fleet of Marine ships , but it turns out to be a mirage . Huge raindrops appear out of nowhere , and the water suddenly splits . The Straw Hats wake up with different clothes . However , Sanji sees that the food he cooked is gone , so he blames it on Luffy , Usopp , and Chopper until Chopper wonders if the sea is haunted . Suddenly , the food begins to be eaten very quickly . Luffy finds the person who ate the food and it turns out to be a little girl . She attacks the Straw Hats and they fight back . It is then revealed that she ate the Mini Mini no Mi and that her name is Lily . She turns out to be a giant , though her devil fruit makes her small . She befriends the Straw Hats after they save her from drowning and wants to see her dad ( this is why she invaded the Marine 's fleet of ships ) . She then talks about food to Luffy . On the Neo Marines ' ship , Ain calls Shuzo and asks why he was not there . Shuzo tells Ain that he will make a better second - in - command and that he is going after Lily 's father . The Straw Hats see Marine ships coming their way who have Lily 's father captive . They are heading towards Impel Down , so Luffy declares battle against the Marines . 576 `` Z 's Ambition ! A Dark and Powerful Army ! '' `` Zetto no Yabō Hen - Nazo no Saikyō Gundan Tōjō ! '' ( Z の 野望 編 謎 の 最強 軍団 登場 ! ) December 9 , 2012 Nami creates a plan for the Straw Hats to rescue Lily 's father , Panz Fry . Chopper , Robin , Brook , and Luffy are the diversion group while Usopp , Sanji , Zoro , and Lily are in the submarine . Luffy goes on the submarine because he finds the diversion group boring . They rescue Panz Fry , but Momonga attacks Luffy , forcing Zoro to intercept him . Shuzo attacks the marines and Panz Fry . His pet alpaca Alpacacino shoots out a cannon at the Marine ships . Shuzo attacks Panz Fry directly but is intercepted by Luffy . Shuzo then kicks Luffy into the sea . Zoro jumps into the water to save his captain , and Shuzo and Sanji get into an argument . Shuzo tells Momomga his reason why he quit the marines , much to the dismay of the rest of his crew . Luffy and Zoro then resurface and Luffy threatens Shuzo . Luffy and Momonga prepare to fight Shuzo . 577 `` Z 's Ambition ! A Great and Desperate Escape Plan ! '' `` Zetto no Yabō Hen - Kesshi no Dai Dasshutsu Sakusen ! '' ( Z の 野望 編 決死 の 大 脱出 作戦 ! ) December 16 , 2012 Several of Shuzo 's men appear and fight against the Marines and easily begin to overwhelm them . Luffy continues to fight Shuzo while Zoro fights Momonga to which the Vice-admiral states they should n't interfere with their business like this . Zoro uses his 360 pound cannon and sends Momonga back that destroys a Marine ship . From the sidelines , Nami notices the wave changes in the ocean and realizes a Thrust - up Stream is coming . When Usopp asks what that is and asks if it 's similar to the Knock - up Stream like the one that took them to Sky Island , Nami says it is , but smaller , but still has enough power to destroy a Marine ship . She has Franky fire the anchors to the raft Panz Fry and the others are on and lets Sanji and Lily know in advance . Luffy has a hard time against Shuzo 's fighting style due to his long arms , but then starts using Haki to overwhelm Shuzo again . As Robin , Chopper , and Brook make their way back to the Sunny , several Thrust - up Streams take out some ships , one of the streams has Usopp in the Shark Submerge flying back to the ship . As Nami has everyone get on the ship she has Franky use a Coup de Burst after the raft everyone is one get close to the thrust and they fly away . However , Luffy and Zoro fall off due to the raft breaking and Luffy uses his arms to grab the raft while Shuzo uses a knife with a Vivre Card attached to it on the raft . After they get away , Momonga gathers his men on a broken ship and laments them having gotten away again while Shuzo goes to finish the Marines off with an attack and defeats Momonga . He then travels to the Straw Hats location and recalls his past fight with Ain and how their fight lasted for over five hours till she won , prompting their leader Z to give her the win and the title of next in command . Shuzo is determined to become the new next in command and destroy the pirates . The Straw Hats land in a location around some rocks and Robin notes they will be safe for now and Nami happy that the planned worked and that they finally got out of the sea . Chopper works on Panz Fry noting he had some bad injuries and that he 'll be fine if he rests . Lily thanks Chopper for helping her father and the rest of the crew . Luffy is excited that he can try Panz Fry 's cooking and Lily reveals she took some food from the Marines and while Zoro notes that 's odd given the circumstances , he changes his tone after seeing she took some sake also . As Luffy asks Panz Fry to make some food , Sanji kicks him stating he needs to rest and Chopper says Luffy did n't listen . However , Panz Fry says he will cook for then despite Lily 's protest stating that as a chef and Giant , he was saved by the crew and would shame himself if he did n't repay them for risking their lives and thanks Luffy for saving him and will cook the food . Shuzo arrives at the location and notes they are out of torpedoes and several of his men offer their lives to use as torpedoes , prompting Shuzo to acknowledge their sacrifice and say they are true men and state he will not let their deaths be for nothing . The ships then prepare to attack the Straw Hats . 578 `` Z 's Ambition ! Luffy vs. Shuzo ! '' `` Zetto no Yabō Hen - Rufi tai Shūzo ! '' ( Z の 野望 編 ルフィ VS シューゾ ! ) December 23 , 2012 Shuzo orders his men to be launched at the island like torpedoes and sacrifice themselves for him . He then attacks Panz Fry and Lily . Luffy faces off against Shuzo but starts to be overpowered by Shuzo and Alpacacino . Lily attempts to go inside Shuzo to explode him by growing to full size , but he senses her intentions using Haki & uses Luffy as a shield so that she ends up inside Luffy instead . Lilly then takes advantage of the situation and turns Luffy into a giant with a combination of her ability and Luffy 's rubbery form . Luffy defeats Shuzo and his pet alpaca and the group gets to eat the heavenly food from Panz Fry before parting ways with Lilly & Pans Fry and setting off for another adventure in the New World . Meanwhile , Ain is talking with Zephyr , where it is revealed to him that Shuzo lost . Ain takes the blame , but Zephyr does not care since neither Shuzo nor his men will tell the marines anything . Therefore , they begin their assault on the first island in the New World , which leads to Film Z .