Detecting phosphorus deficiency can take multiple forms . A preliminary detection method is a visual inspection of plants . Darker green leaves and purplish or red pigment can indicate a deficiency in phosphorus . This method however can be an unclear diagnosis because other plant environment factors can result in similar discoloration symptoms . In commercial or well monitored settings for plants , phosphorus deficiency is diagnosed by scientific testing . Additionally , discoloration in plant leaves only occurs under fairly severe phosphorus deficiency so it is beneficial to planters and farmers to scientifically check phosphorus levels before discoloration occurs . The most prominent method of checking phosphorus levels is by soil testing . The major soil testing methods are Bray 1 - P , Mehlich 3 , and Olsen methods . Each of these methods are viable but each method has tendencies to be more accurate in known geographical areas . These tests use chemical solutions to extract phosphorus from the soil . The extract must then be analyzed to determine the concentration of the phosphorus . Colorimetry is used to determine this concentration . With the addition of the phosphorus extract into a colorimeter , there is visual color change of the solution and the degree to this color change is an indicator of phosphorus concentration . To apply this testing method on phosphorus deficiency , the measured phosphorus concentration must be compared to known values . Most plants have established and thoroughly tested optimal soil conditions . If the concentration of phosphorus measured from the colorimeter test is significantly lower than the plant 's optimal soil levels , then it is likely the plant is phosphorus deficient . The soil testing with colorimetric analysis , while widely used , can be subject to diagnostic problems as a result of interference from other present compounds and elements . Additional phosphorus detection methods such as spectral radiance and inductively coupled plasma spectrometry ( ICP ) are also implemented with the goal of improving reading accuracy . According to the World Congress of Soil Scientists , the advantages of these light - based measurement methods are their quickness of evaluation , simultaneous measurements of plant nutrients , and their non-destructive testing nature . Although these methods have experimental based evidence , unanimous approval of the methods has not yet been achieved .