After that , Hotshot saves Hiccup from several deadly situations , all of which are later revealed to be his own doing . Later on at night , Hiccup wakes up to Hotshot looming over him with his swords , arguing with himself whether or not to kill Hiccup . He ultimately decides not to , and Hiccup asks him what he 's doing . Hotshot begins to tell Hiccup his story , of how he fell in love with a Viking woman , but her father wanted her to marry someone clever . The woman 's father sent Hotshot on an Impossible Task to find and bring back the Firestone , and the reward was the woman 's hand in marriage . Hotshot travelled to the volcano where the Firestone was hidden , but he was captured soon after by the Lava Louts . After a few weeks , he became friends with a jailkeeper named Terrific Al . He asked Terrific Al to bring a half of the ruby heart to his love because she vowed to save him if she received the ruby heart . Terrific Al told Humongous that he would bring the ruby heart to his ladylove if he promised to do something for him and disappeared for fifteen years and came back to tell Humongous Hotshot that his love threw the heart out of the window and married somebody else who had already brought back the Firestone . Terrific Al ( who mysteriously has lost a hand , half a leg , an eye and all of his hair ) told Humongous the thing he must promise to do is to kill Hiccup , stating that Hiccup is a Prince of Darkness and a Devil Child , who will send terror across the Archipelago . After Hotshot finishes his story Hiccup figures out that the woman Humungous is talking about is Hiccup 's own mother , who had thought he was dead , and that Terrific Al is really the terrible villain Alvin the Treacherous as Hiccup had guessed . Hiccup , Fishlegs , Hotshot , Camicazi , the White Dragon and the Windwalker , Hiccup 's riding dragon travel to Lava - lout Island to put the fire stone inside the volcano to stop the volcano from exploding and are attacked by Alvin riding an Exterminator . Alvin reveals the first Sharkworm he met tore out his eye , but he killed it and hid inside . However , after he got out on shore the dead Sharkworm 's mouth shut on his leg , but he carved a new one from its teeth . The volcano erupts and the Exterminators hatch . Hiccup manages to put the stone into the volcano . But on contact with the lava , the fire stone hatches into a fire dragon , revealing that the fire stone is actually an egg . The dragon eats all the Exterminators , including the one Alvin is riding , swallowing Alvin . Hiccup and his riding dragon , Windwalker , run down the island away from lava and fall into the sea . Hiccup 's father and others rescue him and everything works out well . In the epilogue , Hiccup tells us that Windwalker turns out to be his faithful flying dragon .