Brooklyn ( Kings County ) , on the western tip of Long Island , is the city 's most populous borough . Brooklyn is known for its cultural , social , and ethnic diversity , an independent art scene , distinct neighborhoods , and a distinctive architectural heritage . Downtown Brooklyn is the largest central core neighborhood in the outer boroughs . The borough has a long beachfront shoreline including Coney Island , established in the 1870s as one of the earliest amusement grounds in the country . Marine Park and Prospect Park are the two largest parks in Brooklyn . Since 2010 , Brooklyn has evolved into a thriving hub of entrepreneurship and high technology startup firms , and of postmodern art and design . Queens ( Queens County ) , on Long Island north and east of Brooklyn , is geographically the largest borough , the most ethnically diverse county in the United States , as well as the most ethnically diverse urban area in the world . Historically a collection of small towns and villages founded by the Dutch , the borough has since developed both commercial and residential prominence . Downtown Flushing has become one of the busiest central core neighborhoods in the outer boroughs . Queens is the site of Citi Field , the baseball stadium of the New York Mets , and hosts the annual U.S. Open tennis tournament at Flushing Meadows - Corona Park . Additionally , two of the three busiest airports serving the New York metropolitan area , John F. Kennedy International Airport and LaGuardia Airport , are located in Queens . ( The third is Newark Liberty International Airport in Newark , New Jersey . ) The Bronx ( Bronx County ) is New York City 's northernmost borough and the only New York City borough that is part of the United States mainland . It is the location of Yankee Stadium , the baseball stadium of the New York Yankees , and home to the largest cooperatively owned housing complex in the United States , Co-op City . It is also home to the Bronx Zoo , the world 's largest metropolitan zoo , which covers 265 acres ( 107 ha ) and houses over 6,000 animals . Directly to the zoo 's north is the New York Botanical Garden , a botanical garden and National Historic Landmark . Pelham Bay Park is the largest park in New York City , at 2,772 acres ( 1,122 ha ) . Staten Island ( Richmond County ) is the most suburban in character of the five boroughs . Staten Island is connected to Brooklyn by the Verrazano - Narrows Bridge and to Manhattan by way of the Staten Island Ferry , a free commuter ferry and popular tourist attraction which provides unobstructed views of the Statue of Liberty , Ellis Island , and Lower Manhattan . In central Staten Island , the Staten Island Greenbelt spans approximately 2,500 acres ( 10 km ) , including 28 miles ( 45 km ) of walking trails and one of the last undisturbed forests in the city . Designated in 1984 to protect the island 's natural lands , the Greenbelt comprises seven city parks .