The song was also recorded by the popular Chicago area band ALTER EGO in May 2015 and released online for digital download . The song was also recorded by Patti Labelle on her 2005 album Classic Moments . She performed the song as a tribute to Destiny 's Child when they won an award for being the best selling female group of all time . She also performed the song on the NBC show ' Clash of the Choirs , where she had one of her choir members sing the lead vocals . Rod Stewart covered the song for his album Still the Same ... Great Rock Classics of Our Time ( 2006 ) . In 2007 , Marcia Hines recorded a version for her album Life . In 2008 , Kate Ceberano recorded a version for her album So Much Beauty . American Idol Season 6 contestant Gina Glocksen performed the song in the Top 10 round . In 2009 , the cast of Glee covered the song for the episode `` Ballad '' for Finn 's unborn child . The song can be heard on the compilation Glee : The Music , Volume 2 . The girl group `` Belle Amie '' performed the song in the 2010 X Factor finals . Xenia and Sara Oromchi performed and recorded a cover duet of the song during the Battle Rounds of the first season of The Voice . One of American Idol Season 10 Top 24 Girls , Pia Toscano , performed this song , in which the judges made their first standing ovation of the season . Kim Wilde released a version of the song in 2011 as a bonus track on her covers album Snapshots `` . Girl group Fifth Harmony performed the song on the second season of The X Factor USA during Thanksgiving week . During the 12th season of American Idol , contestant Angela Miller performed the song . In a 2013 commercial for Progressive Insurance , characters Flo and Rob perform snippets of the song to promote Progressive 's loyalty program . In 2013 Amber Riley covered the song for the Glee episode `` The Quarterback '' as a tribute to the character Finn who died prior to the episode and in recognition of the death of Cory Monteith earlier in 2013 . Yunita Nursetia performed the song on the eighth season of Indonesian Idol during Top 15 Show . Intan Rahayuning and Gloria Jessica performed duet of the song during the Battle Rounds of the second season of The Voice Indonesia . French contestant Aude Henneville performed the song on the first season of The Voice : la plus belle voix during Blind Audition . The song was also covered by Idina Menzel for the TV Movie `` Beaches '' A version of the song is featured in a MassMutual advertisement that aired during the 2018 NHL Winter Classic highlighting the good deeds performed by ordinary citizens during 2017 .