Prior to the seventh season ( 2007 -- 2008 ) of the WB / CW 's hit show Smallville where she is introduced into the cast and is portrayed by Laura Vandervoort , a woman claiming to be Kara ( portrayed by Adrianne Palicki ) is briefly introduced in the season 3 finale . It is later revealed her real name is Lindsey Harrison , and had been given false memories and powers by the artificial intelligence of Clark Kent 's ( Tom Welling ) father Jor - El as part of a series of tests . Vandervoort portrays the real Kara , Clark 's cousin whose spaceship had been trapped in stasis until the events of the season 6 finale . Much of season 7 is concerned with Kara 's attempts to adjust to life on Earth , especially after learning of Krypton 's destruction . Her storyline sees her simultaneously become the object of Lex Luthor 's ( Michael Rosenbaum ) obsessions and Jimmy Olsen 's ( Aaron Ashmore ) affections , suffer a bout of amnesia , discover her father 's ( Christopher Heyerdahl ) sinister motives and become a target of evil android Brainiac ( James Marsters ) . The season finale sees Kara become trapped in the Phantom Zone . Starting with season 8 , Vandervoort ceases to feature as a series regular , but reprises the role three more times . In her first guest appearance , `` Bloodline , '' Kara is freed from the Phantom Zone and later departs Clark 's hometown of Smallville to search for Kandor , her birthplace , as it is rumored to have survived their home planet 's destruction . She appears again in the season 10 episode `` Supergirl '' , in which she formally adopts her superhero moniker . Her off - screen adventures are alluded to thereafter . Vandervoort makes a final appearance in the show 's penultimate episode , `` Prophecy '' , in which she helps Green Arrow ( Justin Hartley ) locate the `` Bow of Orion '' to use against Darkseid . She is then called to the Fortress of Solitude , where she learns from Jor - El that her job on Earth is done . Using a Legion of Super-Heroes flight ring , she travels to the future to seek her own destiny . The Season Eleven comic book continuation of the show later depicts Kara 's continued story in the 31st century , subsequent return to the present and joining the Justice League .