No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) 88 `` Say Goodbye to Daisy Miller '' Amy Sherman - Palladino Amy Sherman - Palladino September 21 , 2004 ( 2004 - 09 - 21 ) 2T5301 6.20 Things are still testy between Lorelai and Rory , and Rory 's refusal to discuss the Dean situation causes Lorelai anguish . Emily announces that she and Richard have separated . Sookie is ecstatic when Kirk tells her that Luke and Lorelai kissed . Rory 's attempt to meet Dean and discuss what happened leads to a lot of action , but no talk . Dean provokes an argument with Lindsay after leaving Rory 's house . Emily decides to go to Europe and invites Rory to accompany her . Lorelai and Luke are very tentative with each other the day after until they are able to reassure each other that they 're on the right path . Luke heads off to Maine for a week to help Liz and T.J. with their Ren Faire booth . Rory decides that she needs a break from both Dean and her mother , and decides to take her grandmother up on her invitation to go to Europe . 89 `` A Messenger , Nothing More '' Daniel Palladino Daniel Palladino September 28 , 2004 ( 2004 - 09 - 28 ) 2T5302 5.99 T.J. is milking his injuries for all he 's worth , but Luke decides that it 's time to go home after seven weeks on the Ren Faire circuit . Rory calls to apologize and to ask her mother to deliver a letter to Dean . Sookie accurately diagnoses Lorelai with a bad case of management burnout , and the two friends decide to decompress with a girls - day - out . Emily and Rory come home exhausted from fending off the attentions of randy European men . Michel is wildly unenthusiastic when he 's pressed into babysitting for guests whose children take an inexplicable shine to him . After Lindsay finds Rory 's letter , she throws Dean and all his possessions out of the house , and her mother has an angry confrontation with Lorelai in the town square . Lane realizes that she 's falling for Zack . Rory is saddened when Dean expresses regret for the shift in their relationship and the harm it caused to his wife and their families . 90 `` Written in the Stars '' Kenny Ortega Amy Sherman - Palladino October 5 , 2004 ( 2004 - 10 - 05 ) 2T5303 6.10 Luke and Lorelai go on their official first date at a restaurant owned by old friends of Luke 's parents . Luke reminds Lorelai of how they met , shows her a horoscope she gave him for good luck that he 's kept in his wallet , and assures her that he intends to go the distance with her . Lorelai spends the night at Luke 's place . In the morning , she goes down to the diner to get coffee , and the breakfast crowd sees her wearing only Luke 's shirt . There 's surprisingly little gossip about Luke and Lorelai until the next town meeting , where Taylor uses charts to show how disastrous a breakup between them would be for Stars Hollow . Meanwhile , Rory meets a rich Yale student named Logan and chews him out for being rude to her friend Marty . Paris holds a wake for Asher that all the guests assume is a keg party with a weird theme . Emily freaks out when she discovers that Richard has a social life she does n't know about so she invades Rory 's dorm during the wake . 91 `` Tippecanoe and Taylor , Too '' Lee Shallat - Chemel Bill Prady October 12 , 2004 ( 2004 - 10 - 12 ) 2T5304 5.81 Lorelai confesses that part of the charm of breakfast by Luke is breakfast at Luke 's . Rory is less than thrilled to discover that the common room in her suite has been overtaken by a huge antique printing press Paris inherited from Asher . Lorelai and Sookie head up Jackson 's campaign committee when he decides to run against Taylor for town selectman to put an end to the grocer 's petty tyranny over Stars Hollow , but Lorelai has second thoughts when she sees how Jackson 's projected landslide victory is affecting Taylor . Rory and Dean have difficulty finding a comfortable place to be alone , compounded by Dean 's having to share a car with Lindsay and his reluctance to make his relationship with Rory public . Lane confesses her true feelings to Zack . After all the votes have been counted , Jackson is n't quite certain he wants the job , and Taylor vows not to go away quietly . 92 5 `` We Got Us a Pippi Virgin '' Stephen Clancy Daniel Palladino October 19 , 2004 ( 2004 - 10 - 19 ) 2T5305 5.64 The demands of the electorate are beginning to get to Jackson . Lorelai and Rory delicately nudge Richard and Emily closer together . Lorelai decides that a double date with Rory and Dean is the way to smooth over the bumps in her relationship with Dean , but the evening goes awry when Luke ca n't get over feeling that Dean is n't good enough for Rory . Richard takes up a new hobby , and Emily buys a panic room . Failing to get a response from Zack about the declaration of her feelings , Lane rescinds them , which finally gets Zack talking . Lorelai introduces Luke to `` Pippi Longstocking '' as Kirk gets much better acquainted with Lulu during movie night at the Black & White & Read Bookstore . 93 6 `` Norman Mailer , I 'm Pregnant ! '' Matthew Diamond James Berg , Stan Zimmerman October 26 , 2004 ( 2004 - 10 - 26 ) 2T5306 5.60 Doyle is jealous when Glenn 's article gets picked up by the New York Times . Rory discovers that Logan , the son of a newspaper magnate , is also on the staff of the paper . Paris wages a fierce campaign to get the religion beat and takes an ecumenical approach to alienating the local clergy . Desperate for a story idea for her features assignment after several concepts fail to pan out , Rory uncovers a secret Yale society which counts Logan as a member , and enlists his cooperation in getting a story on the group . Sookie becomes upset when the Inn 's accountant suggests dropping lunch temporarily to save money and Norman Mailer stakes out a table in the dining room to work and give interviews , and refuses to order anything from the menu except iced tea . Lorelai and Rory show up for Friday night dinner , and when they discover that neither Emily nor Richard are home , decide to order pizza and eat on the living room floor . Christopher calls Lorelai in a panic when Sherry suddenly decides to move to Paris , leaving him unprepared to care for a colicky Gigi . After freaking out completely over Norman Mailer 's constant presence Sookie realizes that her extreme emotions and sensitivity in the past days are the result of her being pregnant again . Rory asks Christopher to stay away from Lorelai . 94 7 `` You Jump , I Jump , Jack '' Kenny Ortega Daniel Palladino November 2 , 2004 ( 2004 - 11 - 02 ) 2T5307 5.81 After Kirk spills the beans that her daughter is dating Luke , Emily demands that Lorelai bring him to dinner so that they can get reacquainted . Although Lorelai tries to warn him away , Luke goes anyway and is subjected to an evening of oblique insults from a passive - aggressive Emily . After Zach announces that he 's ready to start going out with Lane , they spend a cozy first date at home after banishing Brian to Lane 's bedroom . Having not learned his lesson with Emily , Luke agrees to accept Richard 's invitation to go golfing , and both men turn a deaf ear to Lorelai 's pleas to cancel . Rory gets her story on the `` Life and Death Brigade '' by being blindfolded and whisked away by Logan and his friends to observe the elaborately staged weekend in the woods , and finally , after Logan encourages her to take a risk , to participate in the event 's breathtaking finale . 95 8 `` The Party 's Over '' Eric Laneuville Amy Sherman - Palladino November 9 , 2004 ( 2004 - 11 - 09 ) 2T5308 6.13 After Emily discovers that Rory is seeing Dean again , she calls a temporary truce with Richard so that they can jointly host a Yale alumni party whose express purpose is to find a suitable match for their unsuspecting granddaughter . Liz and T.J. buy a house in Stars Hollow . Mrs. Kim flips out after Kyon tells her that Lane and Zach hugged in Luke 's Diner . When the pressures of being new homeowners lead Liz and T.J. to quarrel , T.J. seeks refuge with his brother - in - law , and ruins the romantic dinner and evening Luke prepared for Lorelai . Logan appears at the party just in time to rescue Rory from yet another prospective bridegroom , and Rory learns that he 's very well acquainted with her grandparents . Lane leads Kyon over to the culinary dark side and reveals the secrets to living a happy teenage life at the Kim house . Dean realizes that he no longer fits into Rory 's life , and Logan gallantly steps in to dry her tears . 96 9 `` Emily Says Hello '' Kenny Ortega Rebecca Rand Kirshner November 16 , 2004 ( 2004 - 11 - 16 ) 2T5309 6.00 Jackson is the soul of patience as Sookie suffers from mood swings and pregnancy food cravings . Paris ' decision to fast for Ramadan to bring authenticity to her writing takes its toll on Rory and Marty . Against Lorelai 's advice , Michel persists with his plan to foil the bathrobe bandits and nearly gets arrested . Emily decides to start dating again and calls on a reluctant Lorelai for advice . Jackson is so overwhelmed by his duties as Selectman that Miss Patty is forced to resort to a ruse to get him to preside over the town meeting . Lorelai invites Christopher to lunch at the Inn and decides to surprise Rory by inviting her as well , but it 's Lorelai who 's surprised by the tension between father and daughter , which erupts into a heated argument out of Lorelai 's earshot . Lorelai feels guilty for lying to Rory when her daughter asks about Luke 's reaction to the lunch date with Christopher . Luke helps T.J. with some plumbing problems at the new house . Emily appears to have a wonderful time on her date , but bursts into tears when she looks around her empty home at the end of the date . Luke feigns indifference when Lorelai finally tells him about lunch with Christopher , but hints at some ambivalence during a later conversation with T.J. . Marty 's timing is off by mere seconds when he attempts to ask Rory out on a date . 97 10 `` But Not as Cute as Pushkin '' Michael Zinberg Amy Sherman - Palladino November 30 , 2004 ( 2004 - 11 - 30 ) 2T5310 6.23 Miss Patty celebrates forty years in show business on the same day that Luke mourns his father 's death . Terrence 's urging Paris to get on with her life prompts her to try speed dating where she hooks up with Doyle . Marty finally clues Rory in that both he and Logan are interested in her . Lorelai 's attempt to do something nice for Luke backfires . Rory enlists Richard in turning the practical joke table back on Logan . At Headmaster Charleston 's request , Rory happily gives Anna , a Chilton student and prospective Eli , the Yale grand tour , but the immature Anna manages to get both herself and her host in trouble with her party - crazed ways . 98 11 `` Women of Questionable Morals '' Matthew Diamond Daniel Palladino January 25 , 2005 ( 2005 - 01 - 25 ) 2T5311 5.04 Wanting to make peace with Rory , Christopher shows up at Yale , but she brushes off his attempt at compromise . When Lorelai learns that Christopher 's father just died , she spends the evening at his place trying to comfort him , then refrains from telling Luke the truth about where she was . Also , Emily & Richard are briefly reconciled when they find and take in a lost dog . 99 12 `` Come Home '' Kenny Ortega Jessica Queller February 1 , 2005 ( 2005 - 02 - 01 ) 2T5312 5.20 Rory offers to help Logan write an article for the Yale Daily , but she is disappointed when he does n't invite her to be his date at a book signing party thrown by his father . When Richard sees Emily talking to the man she dated , he rear - ends her car forcing her to ride home with him . The Gilmores reconcile and decide to renew their wedding vows . Emily warns Christopher that Lorelai and Luke are getting serious and he had better do something quickly if he hopes to end up with Lorelai . 100 13 `` Wedding Bell Blues '' Amy Sherman - Palladino Amy Sherman - Palladino February 8 , 2005 ( 2005 - 02 - 08 ) 2T5313 6.26 Emily and Richard renew their vows in front of their closest friends with Lorelai as Emily 's Maid of Honor and Rory as Richard 's Best Man . Luke gets in a fight with Christopher over Lorelai . Logan comes to the ceremony with a girl that looks like his girlfriend , and Rory gets jealous . Rory confronts Logan and Logan and Rory go a level up from flirting . 101 14 `` Say Something '' Daniel Palladino Daniel Palladino February 15 , 2005 ( 2005 - 02 - 15 ) 2T5314 5.29 Lorelai does her best to get Luke to not give up on them after the awful events at the wedding . Luke tells her he needs some time and Lorelai ca n't take it . Rory asks Logan to hang out with her , but is upset that when she gets to his place that there are a lot of people there . She gets a call from Sookie who tells her that Lorelai is in bad shape after Luke told her that he did n't think he could be in this relationship . Rory does n't have a car , but Logan lets her borrow his car and driver . Taylor has the whole town taking sides for either Luke or Lorelai . After taking care of her mom Rory goes back to Yale to work things out with Logan , making sure he understood that the hanging out did n't just mean hanging out , it meant alone time . 102 15 `` Jews and Chinese Food '' Matthew Diamond Amy Sherman - Palladino February 22 , 2005 ( 2005 - 02 - 22 ) 2T5315 5.37 Still smarting from her split with Luke , Lorelai is further stung when she notices that Luke has moved his boat . Meanwhile , Luke volunteers to build the sets for a school production of `` Fiddler on the Roof '' , knowing that Lorelai is doing costumes , in hopes that their paths will cross . Meanwhile , at Yale , Rory plans to reconnect with Marty to watch Marx Brothers movies , but Logan interrupts their day by inviting them to dinner with his group . 103 16 `` So ... Good Talk '' Jamie Babbit Lisa Randolph March 1 , 2005 ( 2005 - 03 - 01 ) 2T5316 5.42 When Richard and Emily return from their second honeymoon , Rory attends Friday night dinner without Lorelai , who refuses to speak to her mother or see her , and plans a girls ' night out with Sookie instead . Richard and Emily then give a 100 - year - old Greek book to Rory and have yet another maid . Rory surprises everyone with a rare outburst at her grandmother for interfering in Lorelai 's love life . Meanwhile , Luke , who 's miserable without Lorelai , takes his anger out on his customers and his dark mood causes him to burn the food and when one customer wants his omelet redone , he throws him out of the diner . When a meter maid is writing a ticket to put on Luke 's boat ( that is parked in front of the diner ) Lorelai comes in time to put some quarters in the meter . Emily goes to the diner to talk to Luke . Meanwhile , Lane has a horrific realization about her mother 's influence . 104 17 `` Pulp Friction '' Michael Zinberg James Berg , Stan Zimmerman March 8 , 2005 ( 2005 - 03 - 08 ) 2T5317 5.34 Now that Luke and Lorelai are back together , Lorelai can come into the diner . They make a date to celebrate getting back together . Rory and Logan are still dating , however not exclusively . Rory and Lorelai see him with another girl while they are shopping in downtown New Haven , but when Rory goes to Finn 's birthday party with Robert , Logan gets jealous . Emily and Richard assume that since Emily gave instructions to Luke to get back together with Lorelai everything must be all set now . However , they are surprised to see only Rory show up for Friday dinner . 105 18 `` To Live and Let Diorama '' Jackson Douglas Daniel Palladino April 19 , 2005 ( 2005 - 04 - 19 ) 2T5318 4.82 Old man Twickum dies , declaring through his will that the house be made into a museum for two months , then disposed of by the Head of the Historical Society , aka Taylor . Much to everyone 's surprise , Luke volunteers to help with the museum to remain close to the house . Lorelai is interviewed by a magazine due to her success with the inn . Lane suspects Zach of cheating on her with Sophie . Rory and Paris sulk over their recent pitfalls with love resulting with the both of them in Stars Hollow getting tipsy with Lane on Miss Patty 's Punch and all three of them trying to contact their beaus . Dean informs Luke that their situations are the same , and that Lorelai will eventually get bored and move on . Lane discovers Zach secretly practicing in a bluegrass band . ( Last appearance of Jared Padalecki . ) 106 19 `` But I 'm a Gilmore ! '' Michael Zinberg Amy Sherman - Palladino April 26 , 2005 ( 2005 - 04 - 26 ) 2T5319 5.52 Rory finally realizes that she 's not a casual dater and tells Logan that she wants to be friends . He surprises her by suggesting they become a couple instead , while she 's certainly fine with that plan , his family may not be . Luke fills in as Head Chef at the Dragonfly while Lorelai looks for a temporary replacement for Sookie , who must remain in bed for the rest of her pregnancy . Unfortunately , Sookie does n't like losing control of her kitchen and interferes with Luke . And Paris learns the real reason why Doyle has n't returned her calls lately . 107 20 `` How Many Kropogs to Cape Cod ? '' Jamie Babbit Bill Prady , Rebecca Rand Kirshner May 3 , 2005 ( 2005 - 05 - 03 ) 2T5320 5.41 Rory starts her internship . Due to low attendance and much to Luke 's delight , Taylor decides to close down the museum and sell the house . Richard and Emily invite Logan to dinner , and Lorelai begs to attend . Lorelai meets with an inn investor which could mean travel in her future . 108 21 `` Blame Booze and Melville '' Jamie Babbit Daniel Palladino May 10 , 2005 ( 2005 - 05 - 10 ) 2T5321 5.14 The magazine comes out and Luke and Lorelai get a little too enthusiastic when celebrating . Sookie goes into labor . Rory is given a surprising review by Mitchum Huntzberger and goes to extremes to unwind . Luke is upset when he finds out that Kirk has put in a competing offer on the Twickham house . Emily takes in a foreign ballerina . 109 22 `` A House Is Not a Home '' Amy Sherman - Palladino Amy Sherman - Palladino May 17 , 2005 ( 2005 - 05 - 17 ) 2T5322 5.89 After receiving a call from her , Lorelai goes to pick Rory up from the police station and takes her home . While on the way home Logan calls Rory and Lorelai orders her not to talk to him and she does anyway . Rory explains that the boat theft was not Logan 's idea and Lorelai should not blame him . Lorelai goes to Luke and freaks out about what to do and how to act and Luke plays the fatherly type toward Rory while talking to Lorelai . Logan finds out that his father upset Rory and says he will have a talk with his father , but Rory begs him not to . Rory tells Lorelai that she decided she wo n't be going back to Yale next year . Lorelai does n't like this idea and goes to her parents for help . Somewhere in between , Rory goes to her grandparents house to talk to them about her situation and ends up convincing them to support her decision . They then tell Lorelai that Rory will be living in their poolhouse until she decides she wants to go back to Yale . On the other hand , Mrs. Kim helps Lane and her band get gigs and stay together . Show ends with a proposal from Lorelai .