The Eagles headed into their bye week with the best record in the NFL ( 8 -- 1 ) , and with Wentz leading the NFL MVP discussion with an NFL - leading 23 touchdowns to 5 interceptions . During their bye , the Eagles signed former Giants offensive tackle Will Beatty and former Saints linebacker Dannell Ellerbe to not only add depth but also players with Super Bowl experiences . Coming off of the bye week , the Philadelphia Eagles entered a Sunday night showdown with the defending NFC East champion Dallas Cowboys . The Eagles came out sluggish and trailed 9 -- 7 at the half . The team exploded in the second half though , rattling off 30 unanswered points to soundly defeat their rival by a final score of 37 -- 9 . The Eagles were rolling on a nine - game winning streak after a huge blowout win over the Chicago Bears . The Eagles traveled to Seattle in Week 13 in a huge Sunday Night showdown against Russell Wilson and the Seattle Seahawks . The Eagles struggled throughout the whole game , blowing many scoring opportunities and allowing Wilson to throw 3 touchdowns . The Eagles lost 24 -- 10 , ending their win streak . However , the Eagles bounced back in Week 14 win over the Los Angeles Rams in a tough 43 -- 35 win . However , Carson Wentz left the game in the third quarter with a knee injury . It was later found out that Wentz tore his ACL , ending his MVP caliber season . Backup Nick Foles would once again take over as starting quarterback . In Foles 's first start against the New York Giants , he would lead them back from a 20 -- 7 deficit and score 4 touchdowns and win the game 34 -- 29 . Foles struggled in the last two games of the season against the Oakland Raiders and the Dallas Cowboys , and threw a touchdown and 2 interceptions in that span . Despite this , the Eagles finished 13 -- 3 and secured the top seed in the NFC . The Eagles opened as the underdogs , the first time in history that a No. 1 seed has opened up the postseason as an underdog . Despite this , Foles would lead the Eagles past the Atlanta Falcons in the Divisional Round 15 -- 10 . In the next game Foles and the Eagles annihilated the Minnesota Vikings 38 -- 7 in the NFC Championship nicknamed the Minneapolis Massacre , mocking the Minneapolis Miracle from their previous playoff victory . Foles had his best game since week 15 and threw for 352 passing yards and 3 touchdowns including an impressive flea flicker touchdown pass . This win marked the franchise 's third Super Bowl appearance and a berth in Super Bowl LII for a 2005 rematch against Tom Brady and the New England Patriots .