Elijah Wood as Frodo Baggins : a young hobbit who inherits the One Ring from his uncle Bilbo . Wood was the first actor to be cast on 7 July 1999 . Wood was a fan of the book , and he sent in an audition dressed as Frodo , reading lines from the novel . Wood was selected from 150 actors who auditioned , including Jake Gyllenhaal . Ian McKellen as Gandalf the Grey : an Istari wizard and mentor to Frodo . Sean Connery was approached for the role , but did not understand the plot , while Patrick Stewart turned it down as he disliked the script . Before being cast , McKellen had to sort his schedule with 20th Century Fox as there was a two - month overlap with X-Men . He enjoyed playing Gandalf the Grey more than his transformed state in the next two films , and based his accent on Tolkien . Unlike his on - screen character , McKellen did not spend much time with the actors playing the Hobbits ; instead he worked with their scale doubles . Sean Astin as Samwise `` Sam '' Gamgee : a hobbit gardener and Frodo 's best friend . Astin , who had recently become a father , bonded with the 18 - year - old Wood in a protective manner , which mirrored Sam 's relationship with Frodo . Viggo Mortensen as Aragorn II Elessar : a Dúnedain ranger , the descendant of Isildur , and heir to Gondor 's throne . Daniel Day - Lewis was offered the part at the beginning of pre-production , but turned it down . Nicolas Cage also received an offer , declining because of `` family obligations '' , while Vin Diesel , a fan of the book , auditioned for Aragorn . Stuart Townsend was cast in the role , before being replaced during filming when Jackson realised he was too young . Russell Crowe was considered as a replacement , but he turned it down after taking what he thought to be a similar role in Gladiator . Day - Lewis was offered the role for a second time , but declined again . Executive Producer Mark Ordesky saw Mortensen in a play . Mortensen 's son , a fan of the book , convinced him to take the role . Mortensen read the book on the plane , received a crash course lesson in fencing from Bob Anderson and began filming the scenes on Weathertop . Mortensen became a hit with the crew by patching up his costume and carrying his `` hero '' sword around with him off - camera . Billy Boyd as Peregrin `` Pippin '' Took : a hobbit who travels with the Fellowship on their journey to Mordor . Dominic Monaghan as Meriadoc `` Merry '' Brandybuck : a distant cousin of Frodo . Monaghan was cast as Merry after auditioning for Frodo . John Rhys - Davies as Gimli : a dwarf warrior who accompanies the Fellowship to Mordor after they set out from Rivendell and a descendant of Durin 's Folk . Billy Connolly , who was considered for the part of Gimli , later portrayed Dáin II Ironfoot in Peter Jackson 's The Hobbit film trilogy . Rhys - Davies wore heavy prosthetics to play Gimli , which limited his vision , and eventually developed eczema around his eyes . Orlando Bloom as Legolas Greenleaf : a prince of the elves ' Woodland Realm and a skilled archer . Bloom initially auditioned for Faramir , who appears in the second film , a role which went to David Wenham . Sean Bean as Boromir : a prince of the Stewards of Gondor who journeys with the Fellowship towards Mordor . Bruce Willis , a fan of the book , expressed interest in the role , while Liam Neeson was sent the script , but passed . Ian Holm as Bilbo Baggins : Frodo 's uncle who gives him the Ring after he decides to retire to Rivendell . Holm previously played Frodo in a 1981 radio adaption of The Lord of the Rings , and was cast as Bilbo after Jackson remembered his performance . Sylvester McCoy , who would later play Radagast the Brown in The Hobbit , was contacted about playing the role , and was kept in place as a potential Bilbo for six months before Jackson went with Holm . Liv Tyler as Arwen Undomiel : a beautiful half - elf princess of Rivendell and Aragorn 's lover . The filmmakers approached Tyler after seeing her performance in Plunkett & Macleane , and New Line Cinema leaped at the opportunity of having one Hollywood star in the film . Actress Helena Bonham Carter had expressed interest in the role . Peter Jackson wanted to cast Uma Thurman as Arwen , but Thurman pulled out due to pregnancy , Tyler came to shoot on short occasions , unlike the rest of the actors . She was one of the last actors to be cast , on 25 August 1999 . Cate Blanchett as Galadriel : the elven co-ruler of Lothlórien alongside her husband Celeborn . Peter Jackson wanted to cast Lucy Lawless as Galadriel , but she declined due to pregnancy . Christopher Lee as Saruman the White : the fallen head of the Istari Order who succumbs to Sauron 's will through his use of the palantír. Lee was a major fan of the book , and read it once a year . He had also met J.R.R. Tolkien . He originally auditioned for Gandalf , but was judged too old . Hugo Weaving as Elrond : the elven Lord of Rivendell who leads the Council of Elrond , which ultimately decides to destroy the Ring . David Bowie expressed interest in the role , but Jackson stated , `` To have a famous , beloved character and a famous star colliding is slightly uncomfortable . '' Sala Baker as Sauron : the Dark Lord of Mordor and the Ring 's true master who manifests as an Eye after the destruction of his physical form . Originally hired as one of the several stunt performers for the film trilogy , Baker ended up landing the role . In addition , he went on to play several Orcs as well . Andy Serkis as Gollum voice and motion capture : a wretched hobbit - like creature whose mind was poisoned over centuries by the Ring . David Weatherley as Barliman Butterbur , proprietor in Bree Lawrence Makoare as Lurtz : the commander of Saruman 's Orc forces ; Marton Csokas as Celeborn : the elven co-ruler of Lothlórien alongside his wife Galadriel ; Craig Parker as Haldir : the leader of the Galadhrim warriors guarding the border of Lothlórien ; Mark Ferguson as Ereinion Gil - galad , the last Elven - King of Noldor ; Peter McKenzie as Elendil the Tall : the last High King of Arnor and Gondor ; Harry Sinclair as Isildur : Elendil 's son and Aragorn 's ancestor who originally defeated Sauron . Peter Jackson as Albert Dreary : a man of Bree .