randy ( informal ) having sexual desire , ( now more common in the US because of the Austin Powers franchise ) ( US : horny ) ranker an enlisted soldier or airman or ( more rarely ) a commissioned officer who has been promoted from enlisted status ( `` the ranks '' * ) rashers * cuts of bacon rat - arsed ( slang ) extremely drunk ( similar to US shit - faced ) recce ( informal ) reconnoître , reconnaissance ( pronounced recky ) ( US : recon ) recorded delivery certified mail ( No longer in official use : replaced by `` signed for on delivery '' . ) Red top sensational tabloid newspaper reel of cotton in the US is spool of thread Register Office , Registry Office official office where births , marriages , civil partnerships , and deaths are recorded ; usually refers to local Register Office ( in each town or locality ) . General Register Office is the relevant government department . In England and Wales until 2001 , almost all civil ( non-church ) marriages took place in the local Register Office ; different laws apply in Scotland and Northern Ireland . `` Register Office '' is the correct legal term , but `` registry office '' is in common informal use . ( US : Office of Vital Statistics ) Release on Licence a term for parole in England and Wales retail park an out - of - town shopping complex populated mainly by large format stores , one of which is typically a supermarket . ( US : power center or strip mall are roughly equivalent ) return A ticket that is valid for travel to a destination and back . A round - trip ticket . road - works upgrade or repairs of roads ( US : construction ; roadwork ( singular ) ) rocket ( eruca sativa ) leafy , green vegetable used in salads and sandwiches , ( US : arugula ) rock hard candy in cylindrical form often sold at holiday locations and made so that the location 's name appears on the end even when broken . ( US : no exact equivalent , but similar to a candy cane ) rodgering ( vulgar ) to engage in a sexual act , or suggest it . e.g. : `` I 'd give her a good rodgering ! '' ropey ( informal ) chancy ; of poor quality ; uncertain ( see dodgy ) . Can also mean unwell when used in the form to feel ropey row * a heated noisy argument ( rhymes with cow ) reverse charge call a telephone call for which the recipient pays ( US and UK also : collect call ) ; also v. to reverse ( the ) charge ( s ) * , to make such a call ( dated in US , used in the 1934 American film It Happened One Night -- US usually : to call collect ) rota a roll call or roster of names , or round or rotation of duties ( the ) rozzers ( rare slang ) Police ( `` Quick , the rozzers ! Scarper ! '' ) -- possibly from Robert Peel , who also gave his name to two other slang terms for the police : peelers ( archaic ) and bobbies ( becoming old - fashioned ) . rubber a pencil eraser ( US : eraser . The word eraser is additionally used in the US to refer to a blackboard eraser . `` Rubber '' in the US is a slang term for a condom . ) rubbish * worthless , unwanted material that is rejected or thrown out ; debris ; litter ; metaphorically : bad human output , such as a weak argument or a poorly written novel ( US : trash , garbage ) rucksack * a backpack . rug muncher * lesbian . rumpy pumpy sexual intercourse , used jokingly . ( Popularised in England by its usage in The Black Adder and subsequent series ; the suggestion of actor Alex Norton of a Scots term . )