No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) `` Winter Is Coming '' Tim Van Patten David Benioff & D.B. Weiss April 17 , 2011 ( 2011 - 04 - 17 ) 2.22 In the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros , a soldier of the ancient Night 's Watch order survives an attack by supernatural creatures known as the White Walkers , thought until now to be myth . He rushes to Castle Winterfell , which is ruled by Eddard `` Ned '' Stark , Warden of the North , who decapitates the soldier for deserting his post . In King 's Landing , the capital , Jon Arryn , the `` Hand of the King '' , dies under mysterious circumstances . King Robert Baratheon , Ned 's longtime friend , travels to Winterfell , offering the position to him and also proposing marriage between his firstborn son Joffrey and Ned 's older daughter Sansa . Ned 's wife Catelyn receives a letter from her sister Lysa , Jon Arryn 's widow , saying that she has escaped King 's Landing and that Jon was murdered by the Lannisters , Queen Cersei 's family . Catelyn burns the letter and tells Ned about it , believing that the Lannisters are plotting against Robert . Ned 's 10 - year - old son , Brandon , climbs a tower , where he witnesses Cersei having sex with her twin brother , Jaime , who then pushes him out the window from a presumably fatal height . Meanwhile across the narrow sea in Essos , the exiled Prince Viserys Targaryen makes a deal with the Dothraki warlord Khal Drogo , who marries Viserys ' younger sister , Daenerys , in exchange for an army to conquer Westeros and reclaim the Iron Throne . `` The Kingsroad '' Tim Van Patten David Benioff & D.B. Weiss April 24 , 2011 ( 2011 - 04 - 24 ) 2.20 Having accepted his new role as the Hand of the King , Ned leaves Winterfell with his daughters Sansa and Arya , while Catelyn stays behind to tend to Bran . The unconscious Bran is attacked by an assassin , but his direwolf saves him . Catelyn decides to go to King 's Landing to tell Ned about the attempt and suspected Lannister involvement . Jon Snow , Ned 's illegitimate son , heads north to join the brotherhood of the Night 's Watch , protectors of the Wall that keeps the White Walkers and the wildlings from entering civilized Westeros . Tyrion , Cersei 's brother , decides to forgo the trip south with his family and instead accompanies Snow 's entourage to the Wall . When Joffrey threatens Arya and her friend , Arya 's direwolf defends her and escapes , provoking a conflict between the Starks and the Lannisters . To resolve the insult , Robert orders Ned to execute Sansa 's direwolf . In Winterfell , Brandon awakens from unconsciousness . Meanwhile , Daenerys focuses her attention on learning how to please Drogo . `` Lord Snow '' Brian Kirk David Benioff & D.B. Weiss May 1 , 2011 ( 2011 - 05 - 01 ) 2.44 Ned joins the King 's Small Council at King 's Landing , capital of the Seven Kingdoms , and learns just how poorly Westeros is being managed . Catelyn tries to covertly warn her husband , but is intercepted by an old friend , Councillor Petyr `` Littlefinger '' Baelish . Bran learns he will never walk again . He does not remember the events leading to his fall . Jon struggles to adapt to life on the Wall , as he trains with a number of low - born recruits who are not impressed by his bloodline . Lord Commander Mormont asks Tyrion to plead with the King to send more men to the Night 's Watch . Daenerys learns that she is pregnant , and begins to stand up to Viserys . `` Cripples , Bastards , and Broken Things '' Brian Kirk Bryan Cogman May 8 , 2011 ( 2011 - 05 - 08 ) 2.45 Tyrion shares saddle modifications for Bran that will allow the paraplegic boy to ride before heading south . Ned searches for clues to the unexplained death of his mentor and predecessor Jon Arryn and in the process uncovers King Robert 's illegitimate son . Robert and his guests witness a tournament honoring Ned . Jon takes measures to protect Samwell Tarly , an awkward and friendless boy , from the abuse of the Night 's Watchmen . A frustrated Viserys clashes with his newly empowered sister . Sansa dreams of life as a queen , while Arya envisions a far different future . At a chance encounter in a roadside tavern , Catelyn rallies her father 's allies and has Tyrion arrested for conspiring to murder her son . 5 5 `` The Wolf and the Lion '' Brian Kirk David Benioff & D.B. Weiss May 15 , 2011 ( 2011 - 05 - 15 ) 2.58 Ned refuses to participate in Robert 's plan to assassinate the pregnant Daenerys Targaryen , and resigns as Robert 's Hand , angering him . Catelyn and Tyrion ( who she has taken as her prisoner ) arrive at her sister Lysa 's home in the Eyrie . News of Tyrion 's capture reaches King 's Landing where Jaime Lannister , the Queen 's twin brother , demands answers from Ned . A vengeful Jaime fights Ned until his man stabs Ned in the leg from behind , leaving him wounded as his forces leave the capital . 6 6 `` A Golden Crown '' Daniel Minahan Story by : David Benioff & D.B. Weiss Teleplay by : Jane Espenson and David Benioff & D.B. Weiss May 22 , 2011 ( 2011 - 05 - 22 ) 2.44 Robert reappoints Ned as Hand and tasks him with running affairs until he returns from hunting . Villagers from Riverrun arrive in the throne room with news of atrocities committed by raiders , who Ned deduces were led by Gregor Clegane , a Lannister retainer . Ned sentences Gregor to death and sends a message to Tywin Lannister , summoning him to a trial . Ned decides to send Sansa , ( now reconciled with Joffrey ) , and Arya back to Winterfell . Ned finds out that Joffrey is not Robert 's biological son . While out testing his new saddle , Bran is attacked by outlaws . Robb , Ned 's oldest son , and Theon , the fostered son of a fallen rebel king , save him . In the Vale , Tyrion demands a trial by combat , which Lysa accepts . She chooses Ser Vardis and Tyrion asks for a champion . The mercenary Bronn volunteers , killing Vardis and thereby obtaining Tyrion 's release . Meanwhile , Viserys becomes enraged with Drogo for not honoring his promise and threatens to kill Daenerys ' unborn child . Drogo kills Viserys by pouring molten gold on his head . 7 7 `` You Win or You Die '' Daniel Minahan David Benioff & D.B. Weiss May 29 , 2011 ( 2011 - 05 - 29 ) 2.40 In King 's Landing , Ned tells Cersei he knows she is involved with Jaime and none of her children are Robert 's . They soon learn that Robert has been critically wounded by a boar while hunting . A dying Robert names Ned as the `` Protector of the realm '' to rule until Joffrey reaches the legal age . Ned sends a message to Stannis , Robert 's brother , intending to enthrone him since Robert has no true heirs . Ned tells Petyr Baelish about his plan and asks him to gain the loyalty of the City Watch , the only force capable of overpowering Lannister forces loyal to Cersei . After Robert 's death , Ned , Baelish and the City Watch confront Cersei and Joffrey in the throne room , where Baelish and the City Watch betray Ned and attack his men . At the Wall , Ned 's younger brother Benjen goes missing during a foray beyond the Wall . Snow and Tarly are picked as stewards , with Jon assigned to Lord Commander Mormont . The duo swear their loyalties to the Night 's Watch . In Essos , Robert 's assassin is captured before he can poison Daenerys . Drogo vows to conquer the Seven Kingdoms and give it to his son . He starts marching towards Westeros . 8 8 `` The Pointy End '' Daniel Minahan George R.R. Martin June 5 , 2011 ( 2011 - 06 - 05 ) 2.72 Arya manages to escape the Red Keep after her Braavosian sword master delays the guards sent to arrest her ; Sansa is captured however . Robb hears the news and prepares the Northern armies to fight the Lannisters , leaving Bran behind to rule Winterfell . Lysa refuses to fight the Lannisters ; and Catelyn leaves , joining Robb 's camp . Tyrion and Bronn are surrounded by Shagga and his men . Tyrion convinces them to escort him to Tywin to repay them . They arrive at Tywin 's camp , where the latter asks Shagga to help them in their confrontation with the Starks in exchange for payment . Joffrey appoints Tywin as the Hand . Sansa begs the former to show mercy upon Ned . Joffrey agrees if the latter recognizes his reign . At the Wall , some bodies affected by the White Walkers are found . In Essos , Drogo 's soldiers begin attacking nearby settlements , enslaving locals in order to sell them and gain the money to buy the ships necessary to pass the Narrow Sea . 9 9 `` Baelor '' Alan Taylor David Benioff & D.B. Weiss June 12 , 2011 ( 2011 - 06 - 12 ) 2.66 The Stark army arrives at the Twins castle ; and Catelyn convinces Lord Frey to let them pass and assist them by agreeing for marriage of Robb and Arya to Frey 's children in the future . Robb sacrifices 2000 soldiers in a confrontation with the Lannister army to capture Jaime . In a public hearing , Ned confesses to treason and publicly affirms Joffrey as rightful heir . However , rather than sentencing him to the Wall as had been negotiated , a vengeful Joffrey has him decapitated , while Cersei and other counselors object futilely . Sansa and Arya watch their father die : Sansa from the royal party and Arya from the crowd . At the Wall , Jeor Mormont gives his family sword to Jon in gratitude ; Maester Aemon also reveals to Jon that Aemon is a Targaryen . In Essos , Drogo 's wound becomes septic and his death imminent . Daenerys convinces a slave woman to use blood magic to save him . The woman tells everyone to leave the tent and stay outside until the spell is over . Daenerys begins labor , and Jorah brings her into the forbidden tent seeking aid . 10 10 `` Fire and Blood '' Alan Taylor David Benioff & D.B. Weiss June 19 , 2011 ( 2011 - 06 - 19 ) 3.04 The North secedes from the Seven Kingdoms and proclaims Robb as their king . With Jaime captured by the Starks and Robert 's brothers challenging Joffrey 's claim to the throne , Tywin appoints Tyrion as King 's Hand . Jon plans to desert his post at the Wall to avenge Ned , but his friends convince him to stay and he instead joins a Night 's Watch expedition to find Benjen beyond the Wall . Yoren , a Night 's Watch recruiter , helps Arya escape King 's Landing disguised as a boy while Joffrey plans to make Sansa his queen despite her father 's execution . Daenerys learns that her unborn son is dead and Drogo has been left in a vegetative state due to the witch 's treacherous magic . Daenerys ends Drogo 's life and lights a funeral pyre . She burns the witch alive alongside Drogo 's body and her three dragon eggs , and walks into the flames herself . When the embers die the following morning , Daenerys rises , unharmed , flanked by three newborn dragons . Jorah and other witnesses kneel before her .