`` Shawn Rescues Darth Vader '' ( 6.01 ) Lassiter hooks Juliet to a lie detector and tries to trick her into admitting she is in a relationship with Shawn . She later confesses she is dating Shawn to Lassiter outright , but he feels their trust has been broken . Lassiter puts Shawn in the same lie detector when it seems the latter was at the crime scene . Shawn declares this has to do with his and Juliet 's romantic involvement and he blurts out that he loves her shocking everyone in the room and himself . He also admits while under the lie detector that he is a psychic , which further deepens Juliet 's trust in Shawn . Later , Lassiter warns Shawn if he hurts Juliet , he will discharge his weapon ... repeatedly . `` Last Night Gus '' ( 6.02 ) Thanks to some drugged drinks , Shawn forgets a conversation he had with Juliet when she tells him they need to talk about it and saying it was serious causing him to freak out . She reveals that he had asked her to move in and is surprised he does n't remember . They agree that it 's probably too soon . `` The Amazing Psych - Man & Tap Man , Issue # 2 '' ( 6.04 ) Shawn quickly becomes jealous as Juliet shows admiration for the Mantis , a vigilante who is competing with the SBPD to catch the Camino Drug Syndicate . When they are on a date , Shawn realizes that Juliet got a text from the SBPD that requires her to leave . Though reluctant , she departs . `` Shawn , Interrupted '' ( 6.06 ) Juliet shows concern for Shawn when he goes undercover at a mental institution , admitting that her deepest fear was that Shawn would n't be able to come out , after Shawn makes an off - hand comment about enjoying it there , `` Spoiler . I 'm making you a wallet . '' Shawn reassures her , but Juliet is still not at ease . `` In for a Penny ... '' ( 6.07 ) Shawn invites Juliet 's estranged con artist dad , Frank , to her birthday party then hires him to assist on a case . Juliet is furious with Shawn and has no intention of reconciling with her father . She changes her mind when Frank tells her he attended all her recitals and talent shows . At her birthday party , Juliet has made peace with her dad and forgiven Shawn since his heart was in the right place . `` Neil Simon 's Lover 's Retreat '' ( 6.09 ) Shawn and Juliet go away on a romantic vacation but they are robbed by their new ' friends ' , who call themselves , `` Barbie and Clive '' , possibly taken from the 1930s criminals , Bonnie and Clyde . While tracking down the thieves , they come across a murder effectively spoiling their plans . Shawn apologizes since Juliet had `` definite expectations '' for their vacation including the `` M word '' causing Juliet to explain that she had not been expecting a marriage proposal since it is too soon and that she was in no way ready to get married and Shawn agrees seemingly relieved . The clerk returns Shawn 's stolen Nintendo DS , which Shawn had been having a fit about it throughout the episode when discovering it had been stolen much to Juliet 's annoyance and confusion , to Gus who hears a rattle from inside it . He opens the battery case and finds an engagement ring ; revealing that Shawn had actually planned to propose to Juliet during their vacation . `` Indiana Shawn and the Temple of the Kinda Crappy , Rusty Old Dagger '' ( 6.10 ) The episode opens up to Gus confronting Shawn over the ring he found and Gus clearly upset with the fact that Shawn was going to propose to Juliet and he never told Gus about it . Shawn apologizes , telling Gus that he `` had to be ready for a Shamu moment . '' Shawn promises that when he pops the question to Juliet , Gus will be there and offers a fist - bump which Gus ignores , saying , `` That 's storybook right there . '' `` Heeeeere 's Lassie '' ( 6.11 ) Shawn keeps looking for a spot to stash the ring since he 's not ready to give it to Juliet . Gus suggests putting it back in Henry 's drawer if he is n't going to propose . Juliet 's dad Frank arrives from Tanzania stating he got Shawn 's voicemail saying he had something important to discuss . Shawn left the voicemail when he was considering proposing and wanted to ask Frank for his blessing . He asks for permission to marry Juliet in case he needs it in the future . Frank explains to Shawn he wants his daughter to marry someone honest and asks if Shawn has ever lied to Juliet which Shawn hesitates before answering . Gus answers in the affirmative and Frank leaves without offering or denying his blessing , leaving Shawn confused about whether or not he had Juliet 's father 's blessing to one day propose to Juliet . `` Shawn and the Real Girl '' ( 6.12 ) Juliet proves to be jealous as Shawn infiltrate into a reality show in which several men vie for the heart of a woman . Later , Shawn admits to considering himself lucky to have her in his life . `` Santabarbaratown '' ( 6.16 ) At the ending , Juliet and Shawn are walking by the Station , talking about Shawn moving in with Juliet .