No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) 112 `` The Savior '' Eagle Egilsson Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz September 25 , 2016 ( 2016 - 09 - 25 ) 3.99 In the past , Aladdin , a `` Savior '' , is taunted by Jafar over the inevitable downfall of all Saviors . In Storybrooke , refugees arrive from the Land of Untold Stories . Emma experiences tremors and visions ; an arrested Hyde helps her receive an oracle 's vision of a hooded figure killing her . Guided by Morpheus , Gold enters Belle 's dreams to lift the sleeping curse ; he tries to renew their love , but she rejects him . `` Morpheus '' reveals he is really their unborn son , and desired this outcome . Belle wakes and leaves Gold . Henry convinces Regina that Hades may have lied about Robin Hood 's soul having been destroyed . Zelena moves in with Regina but , after learning her sister blames her for Robin Hood 's death , moves out and is approached by the Evil Queen . 113 `` A Bitter Draught '' Ron Underwood Andrew Chambliss & Dana Horgan October 2 , 2016 ( 2016 - 10 - 02 ) 3.72 In the past in the Enchanted Forest , the Evil Queen offers to aid the revenge plot of Edmond Dantes , The Count of Monte Cristo , if he kills Snow and David . When he falls in love with Snow 's handmaiden , he reneges and flees with her to the Land of Untold Stories to save her from poison . In Storybrooke , the Evil Queen recruits Zelena and uses Edmond 's heart to set him against Snow and David ; Regina kills Edmond to save the others , and realizes she retains the capacity for darkness . The Evil Queen declares that the undesirable `` untold stories '' will be played out . She gives David evidence that his father 's death was not accidental . Belle lives on Hook 's ship ; in a deal with Gold , the Evil Queen will not harm her or the baby . Emma tells Archie about her visions and notes that Regina is n't present in them and could be the hooded figure . 114 `` The Other Shoe '' Steve Pearlman Jane Espenson & Jerome Schwartz October 9 , 2016 ( 2016 - 10 - 09 ) 4.11 In the past in the Enchanted Forest , Cinderella meets Prince Thomas at the ball , but flees when she believes he loves her stepsister Clorinda ; Clorinda actually plans to elope with Thomas ' footman , Jacob , but her mother , Lady Tremaine , abducts her to the Land of Untold Stories after forcing Cinderella to betray Clorinda 's location . In Storybrooke , Ashley hopes to reconcile with Clorinda . Aided by the Evil Queen , Tremaine lures Ashley into a trap for her and Jacob . Ashley protects Jacob ; Clorinda reunites with him and forgives Cinderella , while Tremaine is arrested . Emma struggles to control her magic . Whale helps Jekyll recreate his serum , while the Evil Queen and Hyde form an alliance and she releases him . Snow White wants normality , but David secretly investigates his father 's death ; Gold provides information in exchange for David delivering a message to Belle . 115 `` Strange Case '' Alrick Riley David H. Goodman & Nelson Soler October 16 , 2016 ( 2016 - 10 - 16 ) 3.53 In the past in Victorian England , Jekyll petitions the Academy of Science for membership but Dr. Lydgate rejects him . Rumplestiltskin arrives and magically perfects Jekyll 's serum ; Jekyll transforms into Hyde , who blackmails Lydgate for Jekyll 's membership . Mary is Lydgate 's daughter and Jekyll 's unrequited love ; she and Hyde fall in love . Jekyll accidentally fatally defenestrates Mary ; he frames Hyde . In Storybrooke , Gold imprisons Belle on the ship to protect her from Hyde ; but it is Jekyll who tries to kill Belle in revenge for Rumplestiltskin 's role in Mary 's death . Hook saves Belle by killing Jekyll , and Hyde dies of identical wounds ; Regina asks Emma to kill her if necessary to stop the Evil Queen . Gold warns Belle that their child will need his protection . Mary Margaret resumes teaching , and her assistant Shirin inspires her to draw on her life as Snow . Shirin is secretly Princess Jasmine , working with the Oracle to search for Aladdin . 116 5 `` Street Rats '' Norman Buckley Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz October 23 , 2016 ( 2016 - 10 - 23 ) 3.40 In the past in Agrabah , Aladdin seeks a magical weapon for Jasmine , to save the kingdom from Jafar ; he is the weapon and a Savior . Jafar tempts Aladdin with magical shears that can sever him from his fate as the Savior and from his resulting death . Aladdin rejects Jafar and saves Jasmine . In Storybrooke , the Oracle is murdered . Emma helps Jasmine , hoping Aladdin 's survival ensures her own . Having faked his death , Aladdin reveals himself to Emma and confesses that he doomed Agrabah by using the shears , which he gives to her ; she asks Hook to dispose of them , but he secretly keeps them . The Evil Queen impersonates Archie to learn of Emma 's visions , and convinces Zelena to turn Archie back into a cricket . 117 6 `` Dark Waters '' Robert Duncan Andrew Chambliss & Brigitte Hales October 30 , 2016 ( 2016 - 10 - 30 ) 3.06 During the Dark Curse , Captain Nemo abducts Hook and invites him to join the crew `` family '' of his submarine , Nautilus , in their quest for the `` Mysterious Island '' , which is the Land of Untold Stories . Hook discovers the first mate is his half - brother , Liam , and decides to leave to avoid confrontation ; but Liam attacks him , instead mortally wounding Nemo , who steps in . In the present , Archie is freed . Henry confronts Hook over lying about the shears , and Liam imprisons them on Nautilus . Hook opens up and Henry accepts him as family ; they save each other and dispose of the shears . Modern medicine saves Nemo ; he , Liam , and Hook make amends . Emma and Aladdin discuss being a Savior . Jasmine reveals that Agrabah vanished . Snow supports Belle at her ultrasound . The Evil Queen seduces Gold and offers the retrieved shears in exchange for help taking Snow 's heart . 118 7 `` Heartless '' Ralph Hemecker Jane Espenson November 6 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 06 ) 3.56 In the past , fugitive Snow and shepherd David separately travel to Longbourn ; she to flee the kingdom and he to sell his struggling farm . Without ever seeing each other 's faces , David saves Snow from a bounty hunter and she repays him with money to save the farm , deciding not to flee . Their hands touch and a magical sapling is created . In the present , the Evil Queen threatens to destroy Storybrooke with River of Lost Souls water unless Mary Margaret and David hand over their hearts . They learn the sapling could stop the Queen , who destroys it just after they find it . But it has shown them their previous meeting , and they conclude that their love can endure anything ; they surrender themselves . The Queen casts a sleeping curse on their hearts ; because they share Snow 's heart , the curse affects them both ; each can wake the other but immediately succumbs to the curse , so they can never be awake together . Regina uses Gold 's relationship with the Queen to separate the latter from Zelena , who earns Gold 's enmity by exposing his schemes to Belle . 119 8 `` I 'll Be Your Mirror '' Jennifer Lynch Jerome Schwartz & Leah Fong November 13 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 13 ) 3.40 Regina and Emma try to magically trap the Evil Queen in the World Behind the Mirror , but she traps them there , where the Dragon is already imprisoned . Henry prepares for a date with Violet ; the Queen impersonates Regina and tries to manipulate him but he recognizes her . Emma and Regina discover Sidney was building a mirror portal out of the world and try and finish it , but the Evil Queen forces the Dragon to attack Emma and Regina , using his heart , and tries to make Henry kill the Dragon with the Hammer of Hephaestus ; he instead uses it to free his mothers . Mary Margaret and David adjust to living in shifts . Belle asks Zelena to help her escape Storybrooke via magical portal , and they form an alliance with Aladdin and Jasmine . Aladdin steals the Genie 's lamp and the Sorcerer 's wand from Gold 's shop , but Gold takes the wand back from Zelena and puts a magical tracking device on Belle . He asks the Queen to kill Zelena , as the connection between his and Zelena 's hearts protects her from him . 120 9 `` Changelings '' Mairzee Almas David H. Goodman & Brian Ridings November 27 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 27 ) 3.28 In the Enchanted Forest , while served by Belle , Rumplestiltskin abducts a baby to use as bait for the Black Fairy , the mother who abandoned him ; she escapes without answering his questions . In the present , Belle receives advice from her unborn child while Gold becomes increasingly unhinged . Resenting Gold 's order to attack Zelena , the Evil Queen accelerates Belle 's pregnancy ; Mother Superior delivers Belle 's son , Gideon , and sends him into hiding ; Gold vows to find him . As the Genie has been freed , Aladdin takes his place . Zelena and Regina continue to feud . Emma obtains the sword from her vision . 121 10 `` Wish You Were Here '' Ron Underwood Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz December 4 , 2016 ( 2016 - 12 - 04 ) 3.27 The Black Fairy abducts Gideon . Emma discovers the sword can kill the Evil Queen without hurting Regina . The Queen steals the lamp and wishes Emma to an alternate reality where she was never the Savior ; Regina follows her . David and his allies take the lamp from the Queen , who is turned into a serpent by the hooded figure , revealed to be the adult Gideon . Jasmine wishes herself and Aladdin to Agrabah . In the `` wish realm '' , Emma lives as a princess until Regina traumatically restores her memory . Regina frees Rumplestiltskin in exchange for a magic bean , but the portal to Storybrooke closes while Regina is distracted by the appearance of Robin Hood . 122 11 `` Tougher Than the Rest '' Billy Gierhart Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz March 5 , 2017 ( 2017 - 03 - 05 ) 3.03 In 1990 Minnesota , a young Emma is told by a teenager that she has the power to change her fate . In present day , after they miss their way out of the Wish realm , Emma and Regina find another option for escape when they come across August , who agrees to help create a new portal . Regina goes to find Robin Hood to see if he would 've been better off without her . After Regina finds Robin , they 're caught by the Sheriff of Nottingham and later by the Wish realm Rumple . Robin believes Regina when she tells him about their being in an alternate reality . Emma discovers that August was the teenager she met back in Minnesota and inspires him to complete the portal . Emma , Regina , and Robin return to Storybrooke , where Gideon explains to Gold and Belle his intention to kill Emma so that he can acquire her savior powers and kill the Black Fairy , a move that has David furious and Belle concerned . Emma and Gideon finally meet for the battle , but Emma survives , choosing her own fate . Gideon retreats , proclaiming this far from over . Gold and Belle decide to work together for the good of their son . 123 12 `` Murder Most Foul '' Morgan Beggs Jerome Schwartz & Jane Espenson March 12 , 2017 ( 2017 - 03 - 12 ) 3.06 The events of how Robert , the father of David and James , was murdered are detailed in a flashback , in which Robert learns what happened to James after he ran away from King George . With help from Rumple , he tracks him to Pleasure Island , but their reunion is cut short by King George , who orders Robert 's execution . His death affects David in the present day after he sees visions of Robert and asks Hook to help him , despite his being reformed . When Hook becomes concerned that David is taking this investigation too far by going after Albert , he intervenes and brings David back to sanity . Hook is also worried about whether David will give him his blessing to marry Emma , but David does . Meanwhile , Regina tries to get the Wish Realm Robin assimilated into Storybrooke , but soon questions why he agreed to follow her , as it turns out that he had something else planned after he steals a chest from the vault . The truth as to who really murdered Robert is revealed when August gives Hook missing pages he took from Henry 's book . When Hook sees an illustration of David 's dad , he recognizes him and recalls murdering him during a robbery in the Enchanted Forest so that there was no witness to his crime . 124 13 `` Ill - Boding Patterns '' Ron Underwood Andrew Chambliss & Dana Horgan March 19 , 2017 ( 2017 - 03 - 19 ) 2.71 During the First Ogres War , Beowulf leads a fearsome charge on the battlefield in the Enchanted Forest of old . After every last soldier had been slain , Beowulf surrenders to death just as Rumplestiltskin intervenes , killing all the ogres . Hailed as a hero in the village , Beowulf is irked by Rumple 's new title . He creates a ruse to lead Rumple to his demise . Fearing he would not be able to follow through on protecting the villagers without Dark Magic , Rumple bestows his dagger upon Baelfire as an insurance policy . Following a turbulent exchange and threat to frame Rumplestiltskin as a murderer , Beowulf retreats . Feeling the pressure of his threat , Bae commands his father to kill him . Rumple later doses Bae with a memory potion to erase the ordeal from his mind and restore his innocence . In Storybrooke , Rumple recognizes a familiar pattern in Gideon , who makes strides in his quest to kill Emma Swan at the cost of The Blue Fairy 's vitality . Hook worries about the repercussions of telling Emma his newly unveiled secret . Meanwhile , Emma unknowingly forces a proposal after happening upon Hook 's engagement ring . Robin of Locksley attempts to flee the town , but to no avail . The Evil Queen escapes her reptilian confinement and indoctrinates Robin . 125 14 `` Page 23 '' Kate Woods David H. Goodman & Brigitte Hales March 26 , 2017 ( 2017 - 03 - 26 ) 2.85 In the Enchanted Forest , The Evil Queen is in search of a spell that will help her end Snow White for good , but her father has love in mind for his daughter and leads her on a quest to Cupid 's Arrow . However , The Evil Queen rebrands the arrow to follow hatred and discovers that the person she despises the most is herself . In Storybrooke , The Evil Queen and Regina face off in a final confrontation . Just when Regina wins the upper hand , she remembers the Evil Queen 's self - loating and evenly splits the light and the darkness in their hearts , to share their love and hate and allow the Evil Queen to reform . After Emma calls off the engagement , Hook decides to board the Nautilus with Captain Nemo . Hook later changes his mind following a conversation with Snow but , before he can return , Gideon hijacks the vessel and sends it out of Storybrooke . 126 15 `` A Wondrous Place '' Steve Pearlman Jane Espenson & Jerome Schwartz April 2 , 2017 ( 2017 - 04 - 02 ) 2.80 At a loss for hope , Regina suggests a `` girls ' night out '' for Emma with her and Snow . While at the bar , she confides in the mixologist and sheds a tear . Meanwhile , the Nautilus is transported to the Enchanted Forest , where Aladdin and Jasmine board . They have yet to locate Agrabah and are growing weary . After Hook and Jasmine confide in one another , the vessel is irrevocably damaged and Jasmine uses a genie wish to relocate the group to the island where Jafar is located . They discover a cabana belonging to Ariel and Prince Eric . Ariel has collected a genie lamp that houses Jafar . Jasmine is able to sway him into divulging the location of the hidden Agrabah before defeating him with magic dust . Through true love 's kiss , Aladdin and Jasmine , along with Hook and Ariel , are transported to the restored city and Aladdin 's genie curse is broken . Ariel supplies Hook with a means to reach Emma . Emma receives the message and Gideon , no longer masquerading as the mixologist , threatens that he will use her tears to keep Hook from returning to Storybrooke unless she helps him kill the Black Fairy . Flashbacks to Ariel and Jasmine 's first meeting show the princess falter under Jafar 's trickery . 127 16 `` Mother 's Little Helper '' Billy Gierhart Story by : Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz Teleplay by : Paul Karp April 9 , 2017 ( 2017 - 04 - 09 ) 2.60 In Storybrooke , Gold reveals to Emma and Snow that the Black Fairy is his mother and that the Dark Curse Regina cast was created by the Black Fairy . Emma agrees to help Gideon kill the Black Fairy , but is double - crossed by Gideon and left to die at the hands of a giant spider . Gideon opens a portal with the sword , allowing the Black Fairy to slip through into Storybrooke . Meanwhile in the Enchanted Forest , Hook wagers the Jolly Roger for a magic bean in a game of cards with Blackbeard . As Blackbeard and Hook go through the portal , it malfunctions thanks to Gideon and the duo ends up in Neverland , on the run from the remnants of Peter Pan 's Lost Boys . Back in Storybrooke , Henry experiences a disorienting shift in his Author powers , so he and Regina seek help from the only person who can aid them : the previous Author , Isaac . Isaac reveals to Regina and Henry that they are nearing the end of the story in which the savior must fight the Final Battle . Flashbacks reveal the abuses the Black Fairy inflicted on Gideon and that the Black Fairy ripped out Gideon 's heart and is controlling him to kill Emma . 128 17 `` Awake '' Sharat Raju Andrew Chambliss & Leah Fong April 16 , 2017 ( 2017 - 04 - 16 ) 2.51 Regina works feverishly to wake Snow and Charming from the Sleeping Curse . Gold comes face to face with the Black Fairy , the powerful enemy Emma must fight in the Final Battle . Hook , still in Neverland , meets up with Tiger Lily , who gives him a piece of an ancient fairy wand to aid Emma in defeating the Black Fairy . Gold confronts the Black Fairy over her manipulating Gideon with his heart and she maintains that Storybrooke would be destroyed if the two of them fought . A pixie flower allows Emma to open a doorway to Neverland and rescue Hook , who then re-proposes properly . The townsfolk gather around Emma 's sleeping parents and each take small amounts of the Sleeping Curse unto themselves , diluting it and allowing Snow and David to finally reunite . In 1993 , a pixie flower awakens Snow and Charming from their cursed selves , but an awakened Rumplestiltskin tells them they must make a difficult decision to ensure that Emma fulfills her destiny as the Savior . 129 18 `` Where Bluebirds Fly '' Michael Schultz David H. Goodman & Brigitte Hales April 23 , 2017 ( 2017 - 04 - 23 ) 2.69 In Zelena 's past , her childhood friend Stanum asks for her help in finding the Crimson Heart , a magical artifact that would be able to restore his human form after having been cursed by the Wicked Witch of the North to slowly turn into tin . Zelena 's refusal to give up her magic leads to her betraying Stanum , as she keeps the Heart and leaves him to become the Tin Man . In the Present , The Black Fairy tempts Zelena with an offer to join her , only to have Zelena oppose her instead . Regina is brought into the chaos by trying to stop her sister and they find the Black Fairy and Gideon in the crystal mines , with the Black Fairy tricking Zelena into utilizing her unstable Dark Magic to strengthen her for the Final Battle . Realizing that there is nothing left for her back in Oz , Zelena decides to help the residents fight back against the Black Fairy by using the Crimson Heart to give up her magic , thereby undoing the mess she made in the mines . Emma then uses her magic and one of the crystals to bring Mother Superior out of her coma with some help from Regina and Zelena . 130 19 `` The Black Fairy '' Alrick Riley Jerome Schwartz & Dana Horgan April 30 , 2017 ( 2017 - 04 - 30 ) 3.05 The origin of Rumplestiltskin 's true destiny is revealed , as his mother Fiona learns from the Blue Fairy and Tiger Lily that he was destined to become The Savior . When Fiona fears for her son and chooses power over protecting Rumple , it results in her becoming the Black Fairy , and the Blue Fairy banishing her to the Dark Realm . In the Present , as everyone looks for the missing wand , Gold brings Gideon and Emma into the Dream World to search for Gideon 's heart , where the events of the flashbacks unfold . Gold then confronts Fiona , but she reveals the real reason behind why he was abandoned . Gold later retrieves Gideon 's heart and tells everyone that the Black Fairy is dead , paving the way for Emma and Hook 's wedding . However , Gold and Fiona make a deal that will see the Final Battle go forward , with Emma being the Savior that will fight in it . Meanwhile , Regina helps Zelena adjust to life without her powers . 131 20 `` The Song in Your Heart '' Ron Underwood David H. Goodman & Andrew Chambliss May 7 , 2017 ( 2017 - 05 - 07 ) 2.87 In the past , Snow makes a wish that grants the entire Enchanted Forest the ability to use the gift of song as a strength , which also spreads to Oz as well . When Regina becomes affected by the wish , she finds a way to end it before the first curse takes place , but the Blue Fairy , who granted Snow the wish , tells Snow and David that the wish will be part of Emma 's destiny . In Emma 's past , her chance to make use of her talent is held back by being told she 'll be alone . This would come back to taunt Emma in the present day , as Fiona returns to use that weakness to take Emma 's heart before unleashing a new curse on her wedding day , with help from Gold by freezing her family . When Henry discovers the page in the book that reveals the song in Emma 's heart will make her stronger , not only does it embolden Emma , it stops Fiona from crushing her heart , but Fiona still tells Emma that the battle will continue . On her wedding day , Emma and Hook finally marry , just in time for the dark clouds of the Black Fairy 's curse to erupt from the clock tower and engulf them at 6 : 00 PM , setting up the final battle . 132 133 21 22 `` The Final Battle '' Steve Pearlman Ralph Hemecker Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz May 14 , 2017 ( 2017 - 05 - 14 ) 2.95 Fiona 's curse alters Storybrooke , institutionalizing Emma and leaving only Henry and Gold `` awake , '' while sending Emma 's other allies to their home realms . The Final Battle begins over Emma 's belief ; if she stops believing in the realms of story , they will be consumed by the Darkness and cease to exist . If all the realms are destroyed , Fiona would gain unchecked powers and be able to break the Laws of Magic at will . In the Enchanted Forest , the banished characters gather at Regina 's castle ; David and Hook obtain a magic bean and the Evil Queen sacrifices herself , holding off the Darkness to delay the group 's destruction . Fiona convinces Emma to destroy the book , but Henry hand - draws one that restores her belief in time to save everyone in the castle . Gold kills Fiona , who had hidden Belle and turned her into a coward ; this breaks the Curse , which restores everyone 's memories and reunites them in Storybrooke . However , Gideon is still under orders to kill Emma . Gold attempts to free Gideon 's heart ; however , a spell cast by the Black Fairy prevents him from doing so . Emma lays down her sword , allowing Gideon to impale her ; this releases Emma 's light magic and ends the battle . With both Gold and Emma having chosen good , Gideon is returned to infancy and the realms are restored , and those who died in the crisis are revived . The characters embark on their `` happy beginnings . '' Many years later in the New Enchanted Forest , an adult Henry vanishes while defending his daughter Lucy from an unidentified entity . Guided by Tiger Lily , Lucy travels to Seattle , where Henry no longer remembers her .