State Alcoholic beverage control state Alcohol sale hours Grocery Stores Age Notes Beer Wine Distilled spirits On - premises Off - premises Wine Beer Distilled Spirits Purchasing Consumption Tennessee No Mon - Sat : 8 a.m. to 3 a.m. ; Sun : Noon to 3 a.m. Hours of alcohol sale can be modified by local jurisdictions if approved by the alcohol control commission . Beer : By municipality . Wine & Spirits : 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. Mon -- Sat Yes No 21 Wine may be sold in grocery stores . Sales of wine and liquor are limited to on - premises in restaurants on Sundays . Retail stores must be closed for business on Christmas , Thanksgiving Day , Labor Day , New Year 's Day , and the Fourth of July . Beer above 8 % ABW / 10.1 % ABV must be sold in liquor stores . Open container law only applies to drivers , not passengers.It is legal to carry alcohol in a non-glass container on the Beale Street stretch in Memphis . While most clubs allow drinks to be carried outside , many do not allow drinks from outside . Texas No Monday - Friday : 7am - midnight Saturday : 7am - 1am Sunday : Noon to 12 midnight . Some cities / counties permit sale until 2am ( with license ) . Beer / Non-hard liquor : 7 a.m. to midnight ( Mon. - Fri . ) 7 a.m. to 1 : 00 a.m. ( Sat . ) Noon to midnight ( Sun . ) Hard Liquor : 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. ( Mon. - Sat . ) Yes No 21 No alcohol cap but ABV > 15.5 % requires additional license , so many places are beer / wine only . Wet / dry issues determined by city / county election . Liquor stores statewide closed all day Sunday . An alcoholic beverage served ( on - premises ) to a customer between 10 a.m. and noon on Sunday may only be provided during the service of food to the customer . Eleven Texas counties are completely dry . In many counties , public intoxication laws are vigorously upheld . Texas law permits consumption by minors ( any age under 21 ) if in the `` visible presence '' of a parent , guardian or adult spouse . ( Section 106.04 ) Possession by minors is permitted as part of employment or education , or in the visible presence of an adult parent , guardian or spouse , or supervision of a commissioned peace officer . ( Section 106.05 ) There are also exemptions for minors requesting or receiving medical attention . Utah Yes Restaurants : Noon to midnight for liquor , 10 : 00 a.m. to 1 : 00 a.m. for beer . Bars may serve liquor from 10 : 00 a.m. to 1 : 00 a.m. Varies by state liquor store hours 3.2 only No 21 ABV > 4.0 + % sold in state - controlled stores only . 3.2 % ABW ( 4.0 % ABV ) beer may be sold at grocery stores and convenience stores . State - controlled stores close on Sundays and cease operations no later than 10 p.m. the rest of the week . Restaurants must buy from the state - controlled store ( no delivery ) at retail prices . No alcohol is served in restaurants without purchase of food . Sales of kegs prohibited . Importation of alcohol into the state by private individuals generally prohibited . Vermont No Yes 8 a.m. -- 2 a.m. 6 a.m. -- midnight Yes No 21 ABV > 16 % beer and ABV > 16 % wine are only available through state liquor stores ( most of which are integrated within grocery and beverage stores ) . A 2008 bill allows the sale of beer in grocery and convenience stores up to ABV 16 % . Virginia No Yes 6 a.m. -- 2 a.m. No restrictions at any time for club licensees . 6 a.m. -- 11 : 59 p.m. except local blue law . Yes No 21 Licensed supermarkets , convenience stores , and gas stations may sell beer and wine . Off - premises sales no later than 12 midnight . Liquor stores are owned and operated by the Commonwealth and are generally open 10am - 9pm Monday - Saturday and from 12pm - 6pm on Sunday . Washington No 6 a.m. -- 2 a.m. ( A local government subdivision may establish later opening hours or earlier closing hours . ) Yes 21 Beer and wine are available in specialty stores , grocery stores , convenience stores , department stores , taverns , and other locations licensed by the Washington State Liquor and Cannabis Board . Spirits are available in stores greater than 10,000 sq ft ( grocery stores , big box liquor chains ) . There are two exceptions to the 10,000 - sq - ft rule : 1 ) Former State and Contract Liquor Stores that reopened under private ownership may also sell spirits provided they have been issued a new license from the state . 2 ) Cities , mostly in rural areas , that do not have a store that meets the minimum floor space may be allowed to sell spirits if the Liquor Control Board deems that there are no sufficient establishments within the trade area . West Virginia No Yes Beer / Wine : Mon - Sat : 7 am - 2 am , Sun : 1 pm - 2 am Liquor : Mon - Sat : 8 am - Midnight , Sun : Prohibited Mon - Fri : 7 am - 3 : 30 am , Sat : 7A - 3 : 00A , Sun : 1 pm - 3 am Yes 21 12 % ABV Cap on Beer . 75 % ABV spirits Permitted . Liquor , wine and beer products that are not already in closed packaging must be bagged before exiting retail locations . State no longer operates retail stores ( formerly State ABC Stores ) ; Number of privately owned stores restricted according to county or city population . All stores are state contracted ; Bars and clubs must purchase liquor from state contracted private stores in person . State retains monopoly over wholesaling of distilled spirits only . Wisconsin No 6 a.m. -- 2 a.m. Sunday -- Thursday , 2 : 30 a.m. Friday -- Saturday , no closing time on New Year 's Day . 6 a.m. -- midnight for beer ( some counties and municipalities only allow sales until 9 p.m. for beer ) , 6 a.m. -- 9 p.m. for liquor and wine By local ordinance 21 Wisconsin permits the consumption of alcohol by minors , provided they are being supervised by parents / guardians / spouses . Most municipalities have a uniform 9 p.m. restriction on all alcohol sales . Notable exceptions : Kenosha , Green Bay , La Crosse , Maple Bluff ( near Madison ) , Baraboo ( near the Dells ) . Supermarkets , liquor stores , and gas stations may sell liquor , wine , and beer . Law changed effective 12 / 7 / 2011 to allow all liquor sales to begin at 6 a.m. Nonalcoholic beer is not regulated by state law . Wyoming No Yes 6.00 a.m. -- 2.00 a.m. Yes 21 Clubs holding liquor licenses may be exempt from the hours of operation here specified by local ordinance or regulation of the appropriate licensing authority , but it does not seem to happen in practice Puerto Rico No No territory - wide mandated last call No territory - wide mandated hours of operation for liquor stores , but sales prohibited on Election Day and during hurricane emergencies ; some municipalities prohibit sales after midnight weekdays or 2 : 00 weekends . Beer , wine and spirits available for sale in supermarkets , convenience stores and drug stores as well as liquor stores . 18 Minimum drinking age is 18 . Drinking on the street is illegal in San Juan ( except in designated areas during selected street festivals ) but not in all cities .