No . overall No. in series Title Vehicles tested Special guests Original air date 14 `` Past , Present , or Future '' Lamborghini Aventador S , Honda NSX , Rimac Concept One David Hasselhoff , Ricky Wilson 8 December 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 08 ) The tent is now in the Cotswolds and will remain there for the duration of the series . To determine whether the past , present , or future of motoring is best , the presenters visit Switzerland with Clarkson in a petrol powered Lamborghini Aventador S representing the past , May in a hybrid powered Honda NSX representing the present , and Hammond in an all - electric Rimac Concept One representing the future . After starting at the top of the Gotthard Pass , Hammond brings the trio to a stay at the Park Weggis ( de ) health retreat and visit the Swiss Museum of Transport and other museums in Lucerne close to a charging station for the Rimac car . May and Clarkson reject this and go to a hill climbing race at Hemberg instead . As Clarkson can not fit into the Aventador whilst wearing a mandatory racing helmet , Clarkson sends a Lamborghini test driver in his place , thus setting the fastest time of all three . Hammond crashes after completing the course , destroying the Rimac in a fire . Footage taken from YouTube shows the wreckage being extinguished and Hammond being airlifted by the Swiss Air - Rescue ( REGA ) to hospital . The presenters discuss some inapropriate new features within cars on Conversation Street . Celebrity Brain Crash is replaced by Celebrity Face Off , in which Ricky Wilson beats David Hasselhoff to determine who the `` fastest former talent show host '' is . 15 `` The Falls Guys '' Ford GT , Mercedes AMG GT R Kevin Pietersen , Brian Wilson 15 December 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 15 ) The presenters race from Central Park in Manhattan , New York City , to an observation tower overlooking the Niagara Falls . Clarkson drives the new Ford GT whilst May and Hammond ( on crutches ) use public transport , taking the New York City Subway , AirTrain JFK , a JetBlue Embraer E190 flight , plus two Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority buses . Despite Hammond and May 's flight arriving 15 minutes early , Clarkson narrowly wins the race . For Conversation Street the presenters discuss sponsorship ideas . Clarkson reviews the Mercedes AMG GT R , after which new test driver , Abbie Eaton , takes it for a timed lap around the Eboladrome . In `` Celebrity Face Off '' , Kevin Pietersen of South Africa beats Brian Wilson of the U.S. as the `` fastest person who makes a living throwing and hitting and catching small balls '' . 16 `` Bah Humbug - atti '' Kia Stinger GT , Bugatti Chiron Hugh Bonneville , Casey Anderson 22 December 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 22 ) The presenters begin with Christmas tree lights made from vehicle parts and , Starting with Scalextric , they exchange humorous and inappropriate Christmas gifts in Conversation Street . May travels to Majorca to race a Kia Stinger GT against a pair of longboard riders along a mountain road , with May winning the race despite him racing uphill and the riders downhill . Hammond and May attempt to relieve lunchtime boredom by inventing `` lunchtime office car park racing '' at Houghton Hall business park in the Luton / Dunstable Urban Area . After brief interviews in which both share their own ownership of a Tesla Model S , Hugh Bonneville , representing the UK , and Casey Anderson , representing the United States , compete during `` Celebrity Face Off '' as the `` fastest person who lives with a bear '' , with Anderson winning by setting the faster lap time . Clarkson experiments with the jet set lifestyle , starting in the morning from the Da Vinci super-yacht moored in Saint - Tropez and then driving a Bugatti Chiron to L'Alpe De Venosc France for skiing at lunchtime , stopping briefly for a drag race against a BMW M4 at Gap -- Tallard Airport to give viewers a perspective on how fast the Chiron is . After leaving the Alps , Clarkson then pays an homage to the 1976 film C'était un rendez - vous , by speeding across Turin and reaching the Piazza Carignano ( it ) in 9 minutes . 17 `` Unscripted '' McLaren 720S , Audi TT RS , Ariel Nomad Michael Ball , Alfie Boe , Silvija Jurin 29 December 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 29 ) The presenters begin by having a year - ending awards ceremony in Conversation Street . Hammond heads to the Eboladrome to test the McLaren 720S after which Eaton sets a lap time . Since The Grand Tour has been criticised for being too `` scripted '' , the presenters head to Zadar county and the island of Pag in Croatia to make a completely `` unscripted '' film . This results in Clarkson turning up in the Audi TT RS , Hammond turning up in the not at all comparable Ariel Nomad , and May turning up in an old Lada Riva which he turns into a fire engine . They go their separate ways though Clarkson and Hammond end up comparing their cars in a drag race , a rally stage ( both of which are won by Clarkson ) , visiting Maslenica , the Plitvice Lakes National Park , and following the D106 road until running out of road at Žigljen ferry port . Due to a lack of fires , May has to setup his own ones until Clarkson and Hammond setup one that proves too difficult for May , which the real fire brigade manage to put out with a firefighting aircraft , destroying May 's Lada fire engine in the process . Michael Ball and Alfie Boe compete in `` Celebrity Face Off '' with Ball setting the faster time and becoming the `` fastest classical singer with some kind of interesting connection to the British motor industry '' . 18 5 `` Up , Down and Round the Farm '' Ripsaw EV2 , Volkswagen Up ! GTI Bill Bailey , Dominic Cooper , Mark Higgins 5 January 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 05 ) The presenters introduce some of the new cars for 2018 in Conversation Street . Hammond heads to Dubai to test a Sandrail dune buggy in the desert , followed by the Ripsaw `` high - end luxury tank '' , visiting the Dubai Mall . May reviews the Volkswagen Up ! GTI at the Eboladrome and in thick fog Eaton records a record slow time . Guests Bill Bailey and Dominic Cooper discuss their shared ownership of old French cars before racing each other in greasy / wet conditions with Cooper becoming the `` fastest person who has a failed former career in a band '' . Clarkson creates a Ken Block - style `` Farmkhana '' film using an old Subaru Impreza WRX STi around Hare Farm , near Rye , with bullet time photography . Hammond and May show the audience that Clarkson 's driving was mostly fake by sharing a `` making - of '' consisting of outtakes and behind - the - scenes footage featuring rally driver Mark Higgins , producer Phil Churchward , plus camera operator Ben Joiner breaking the fourth wall . Clarkson suggests that the whole thing is like sawing a woman in half during a magic show , and that really the audience do n't want to know . 19 6 `` Jaaaaaaaags '' None Luke Evans , Kiefer Sutherland 12 January 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 12 ) The presenters head to the area around Grand Junction , Colorado , staying at the Gateway Canyons Resort & Spa , and eventually travelling to Telluride , Colorado with a variety of old Jaguar cars to establish the manufacturer 's reputation for reliability with Clarkson buying an XJR , May taking an XK8 convertible and Hammond bringing a Mark X . During the course of the trip the cars are driven around a dirt track ( where Hammond 's car is badly damaged , and is replaced by an XJ6 ) , along the runway at Telluride Regional Airport , ( where May 's car is destroyed , and is replaced by an XJS ) and down the slopes of the Telluride Ski Resort . At Hanging Flume overlook , Clarkson experiences a traffic stop by a Mesa County police officer and reads the `` Her Britannic Majesty '' text from his British passport . Despite Clarkson 's car being the best , May admitting his car had poor brakes deemed the challenge pointless . The presenters discuss the annoyance of Firemen cutting the roofs of cars in Conversation Street . Kiefer Sutherland beats Luke Evans to become `` the fastest actor with a middle name of George '' . 20 7 `` It 's a Gas , Gas , Gas '' Lamborghini Huracán Performante Anthony Joshua , Bill Goldberg 19 January 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 19 ) The presenters discuss some new supercars and how handbrake turns impress women within the Conversation Street Segment . Hammond tests the Lamborghini Huracán Performante at the Eboladrome beating May 's Ferrari 458 Speciale in a drag race before Eaton takes it round the track setting a fast time . May and Hammond then look at ingenious ways of filling up with fuel instead of stopping at a fuel station . Anthony Joshua becomes `` the fastest man who makes a living out of punching or strangling someone '' beating Bill Goldberg , with both previously owning cars from General Motors . Clarkson then talks about the Rivalry in rallying between Audi with the Quattro and Lancia with the 037 . They conclude with a `` terrible disappointment '' that Lancia is no longer around . 21 8 `` Blasts from the Past '' Jaguar XK SS , Aston Martin DB4 GT , Honda Civic Type R , Ford GT Stewart Copeland , Nick Mason 26 January 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 26 ) The presenters head to the City of Pau , Pyrénées - Atlantiques , France , and home of the Pau Grand Prix on the Circuit de Pau - Ville ( fr ) street course . At Palais Beaumont ( fr ) Hammond arrives with a Jagaur XK SS and Clarkson in an Aston Martin DB4 GT ; both being modern builds of older designs from the 1950s `` back - catalogues '' of Jaguar and Aston Martin . They both race around the Streets of Pau before May turns up in a modern Honda Civic Type R to prove that new cars are better . All three depart to drive south over the Pyrenees mountain range , with Clarkson and Hammond experiencing difficulties in dense fog . Clarkson recants a previous incident from 2013 -- when Clarkson and Hammond 's driving licences were confiscated whilst filming The Perfect Road Trip in France -- and tries to goad May into speeding on the Autopista AP - 2 . At Barcelona the presenters race around the abandoned Autódromo de Sitges - Terramar and the extreme banking on its corners , with May winning , and Hammond abstaining following his history of crashes . During Conversation Street the presenters discuss names for gritters . At the Eboladrome , Clarkson retests the Ford GT following the Niagara Falls race , with Eaton setting a test lap . Nick Mason goes on to record a faster lap than Stewart Copeland to become `` the fastest drummer for a band beginning with the letter p '' . 22 9 `` Breaking , Badly '' Jaguar XJ220 , Bugatti EB 110 Super Sport Dynamo , Penn & Teller 2 February 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 02 ) The presenters discuss new sport cars by various companies , jumpers and the speed of pigeons vs blackbirds during Conversation Street . Clarkson unsuccessfully sets out to prove that mankind has not significantly improved over the last 25 years by testing the Jaguar XJ220 and the Bugatti EB 110 Super Sport , the fastest supercars from the early 90s , both of which set slow times at the Eboladrome when driven by Eaton . The trio tries to break the UK speed record for amphibious vehicles by building one of their own . Clarkson oversees his idea of combining a Rolls - Royce Spey turbofan engine from a Nimrod jet and a speedboat with a Suzuki Jimny . However on a nearby lake , Clarkson and May have to abort their run after achieving only 3 mph ( 5 km / h ) and nearly sinking . Hammond and May then go on to build a vehicle of their own by combining a Bond Bug with the engine of a personal water craft nicknaming it the `` Pond Bug '' . Competing on Coniston Water during Coniston Power Boat Records Week , Clarkson , being the only one with a speedboat licence , operates the `` Pond Bug '' and achieves an average of 47.81 mph ( 76.94 km / h ) , setting a new UK record . After performing a series of magic tricks , Dynamo and Penn & Teller compete to become `` the fastest magician in the world '' , with Penn & Teller prevailing on a snowy track . 23 10 `` Oh , Canada '' Alfa Romeo Stelvio Quadrifoglio , Range Rover Velar P380 , Porsche Macan Turbo Performance Pack , Tesla Model X , Ford F150 Raptor Rory McIlroy , Paris Hilton 9 February 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 09 ) The presenters head to Canada to prove that small SUV 's are useless with Clarkson picking an Alfa Romeo Stelvio Quadrifoglio , May choosing a Range Rover Velar P380 and Hammond taking a Porsche Macan Turbo Performance Pack . They are shown to be slower round the Area 27 circuit than a BMW M3 , not practical enough to carry Canadian Newfoundland dogs , and slower round a barrel course than a horse : concluding that SUVs are pointless . Despite this , executive producer Andy Wilman informs via text that they will race their SUVs whilst each towing a boat up a mountain . May abandons his Velar for his boat , which sinks , causing him to lose the race . Because Clarkson 's Stelvio has no tow bar he cheats and exchanges it for a Ford F150 Raptor , ultimately arriving first with the presenters concluding that the Raptor was better than all the SUVs being tested . On Conversation Street the presenters talk about new SUVs and vans . Clarkson reviews the Tesla Model X at the Eboladrome and on the road , accompanied by some lawyers , ostensibly to avoid Tesla pursuing any legal action , following the previous Tesla v. Top Gear court cases . Rory McIlroy and Paris Hilton discuss their car collections before McIlroy beats Hilton to become the `` World 's Fastest Golfing Enthusiast '' . 24 11 `` Feed the World '' None None 16 February 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 16 ) The presenters head to Mozambique on a mission to feed the people of Bingo , an isolated town in the west of the country , with fish from the country 's capital of Maputo , covering a distance of approximately 200 miles . To do this , each of them attempt to find the best transport solution : May buys a Mercedes - Benz Estate and modifies it by fitting a Perspex tank filled with sea water in which to keep the fish alive ; Clarkson buys a Nissan Hardbody truck which he fits with a generator and an ice machine in an attempt to keep the fish frozen and Hammond buys a TVS Star motorcycle and devises a rack which he fits to the bike 's rear , inspired by a local method of drying and salting the fish to preserve them . After unsuccessfully trying to catch fish using local methods , they buy fish at a local market . Early in the journey , Clarkson 's truck crashes into May 's car upon rescuing it , damaging its radiator grille . Deeper into rural Mozambique , May constantly soaks himself with sea water from his ill - fitted tank and , due to his damaged radiator grille , suffers multiple breakdowns due to water intrusion . Hammond loses a large number of his fish on the bumpy roads , constantly gets stuck in thick mud and endlessly falls from his motorbike . Clarkson suffers very few issues except when his ice machine breaks , causing him to make small adjustments to his truck in order to smoke the fish with his exhaust . Upon May 's car breaking down in the middle of a lake , despite Hammond and Clarkson crossing successfully , Clarkson cuts off the front end of the Mercedes and tows what remains of the rear portion using his truck - much to May 's dismay and annoyance . Eventually , the three reach Bingo with May 's fish dead , Clarkson 's fish ruined and Hammond having almost no fish left . As a result , they sell no fish and leave Bingo in a helicopter `` like all charitable celebrities '' .