Arthur `` The President '' Flanders -- An inmate on death row , convicted of killing his father in an insurance - fraud scheme . His sentence is commuted to life imprisonment , but he is later murdered by an unknown inmate in the prison laundry . Arlen `` The Chief '' Bitterbuck -- A Washita Cherokee death - row inmate , convicted of killing a man in a drunken brawl over a pair of boots . His execution is the first of three mentioned in Paul 's story . Janice Edgecombe -- Paul Edgecombe 's wife . Dies in a bus accident on the way to her grandchild 's graduation in 1956 . Hal Moores -- The warden at Cold Mountain Penitentiary . Melinda Moores -- Warden Moores 's wife , who is dying of a brain tumor and is cured by John Coffey . She eventually dies of a heart attack ten years later . Curtis Anderson -- The assistant warden . Dean Stanton -- A guard on E Block who is strangled and nearly killed by William Wharton . A father of young children , he takes no part in the taking of John Coffey to Melinda Moores due to the risk of losing his job . He applies for relocation to C Block after John Coffey 's death , where he is murdered by an inmate 4 months later . Harry Terwilliger -- One of the main guards on E Block along with his friends Paul Edgecombe , Brutus Howell and Dean Stanton . He eventually dies of cancer , long after John Coffey 's execution . Bill Dodge -- A `` floater '' guard on E Block ( not permanently assigned there ) . Jack Van Hay -- A guard who is part of the execution team . He operates the switch room . Toot - Toot -- A trustee who stands in for the condemned during execution rehearsals and sells snacks to prisoners and guards . Burt Hammersmith -- A reporter who wrote on the Detterick twins ' murders and John Coffey 's trial . Despite believing himself to be an `` Enlightenment '' man , he displays prejudice in his stance on `` Negroes '' and tries to convince Paul of John Coffey 's guilt . Elaine Connelly -- A friend of Paul in the present - day nursing home where he tells his story . She is later revealed to be the grandmother of the Speaker of the Georgia House of Representatives , using this position to scare Brad Dolan from harassing Paul . Homer Cribus -- The Sheriff of Trapingus County , where the murders of the Detterick twins took place . Despite playing no part in apprehending John Coffey , he later shows up at the execution . An outspoken Baptist with strong racial prejudice and immensely overweight , he later succumbs to a heart attack while having sex with a 17 - year - old African American in his office . Rob McGee -- The Deputy Sheriff of Trapingus County , who led the search party which found John Coffey . While displaying strong doubt about Coffey 's guilt after being shown signs of innocence by Paul Edgecombe , he is still powerless to call for an appeal as he is subordinate to Sheriff Cribus , whom he allegedly hopes to succeed . Brad Dolan -- A malicious nursing home employee who harasses Paul Edgecombe . Paul strongly compares him to Percy Wetmore , and several times mistakes him for Percy , despite the latter dying in 1965 . Kathe and Cora Detterick -- The two young girls whom John Coffey was convicted of raping and murdering . Killed by William Wharton . Klaus and Marjorie Detterick -- The parents of Kathe and Cora .