No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) 294 `` Break Down the House '' Debbie Allen Krista Vernoff September 28 , 2017 ( 2017 - 09 - 28 ) 8.07 In a whirlwind of reunions and a Grey Sloan `` major uplift '' , Meredith finds herself in a complicated love triangle between Nathan and Megan , Owen 's sister who was recently revealed to still be alive after a ten year absence in a hostage camp overseas . With Megan 's reappearance , Teddy Altman comes back to Seattle to support Owen and his mom , which leads to awkward interactions with Amelia . With Stephanie now in Texas at a burn unit , Jo eagerly tries to make Ben her new person . After being `` ghosted '' by Eliza , Arizona hits it off with an Italian girl in a bar whom she takes home with her . When DeLuca comes home , he finds his sister half - naked on his couch with Arizona . 295 `` Get Off on the Pain '' Kevin McKidd Krista Vernoff September 28 , 2017 ( 2017 - 09 - 28 ) 8.07 Carina , DeLuca 's sister , asks to be introduced to Bailey in order to get approval to study the controversial topic of female masturbation and orgasms at her hospital ; Bailey obliges due to society 's double standard . Meredith works to get everyone to agree that an abdominal wall transplant is the best tactic to treat Megan 's wounds ; she even gets Teddy to scrub in to erase any doubts of Meredith 's intentions of being Megan 's surgeon . Jo tries to mend her relationship with Alex . Later , it is revealed that Jo slept with one of the new sub-interns . Owen gets called out on his marital status with Amelia , who seems to be avoiding him and his family . Even without the support of Jackson , Amelia fights to remove a patient 's mastoid tumor . She later takes part in Carina 's study which leads to her finding a huge tumor in her own brain . 296 `` Go Big or Go Home '' Chandra Wilson Meg Marinis October 5 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 05 ) 8.06 Amelia brings in one of her former professors and current head of Neurology at Johns Hopkins , Dr. Tom Koracik to help her come up with a treatment plan for her tumor . Much to her chagrin , Dr Koracik brings to light how impaired her judgment has been over the last ten years ; Richard makes sure to let Amelia know that her judgment has not been all that bad and encourages her to come clean to those with whom she is closest . Bailey is confronted by Harper Avery about all the changes that have been made to the hospital and threatens to withdraw all funding from the foundation ; when Bailey stands up to him , Avery fires her . In the end of the episode Avery passes away with a sudden cardiac arrest and then Jackson and Catherine Avery reinstate Bailey back as the chief . Ben and Arizona resort to advice delivered by Carina when one of their patients gets stuck in labor . Meredith turns to her former psychiatrist , who winds up as a patient , to sort out her mood towards everyone instigated by the love triangle involving Nathan and Megan . Jo asks Alex to move back home . 297 `` Ai n't That a Kick in the Head ? '' Geary McLeod Marlana Hope October 12 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 12 ) 8.08 Amelia has her brain tumor removed , but in the days following , she experiences some complications , such as speaking only French , and memory loss . Richard unexpectedly brings Maggie to attend a family dinner hosted by Catherine , which turns awkward when Catherine discloses to Avery his inheritance from Harper 's passing , a quarter billion dollars . Bailey and Richard host interviews with prospective new interns but fail to find a decent candidate . Using her research to justify his entry into the country , Meredith and Nathan team up to bring Megan 's adopted son to America . Amelia and Owen face their fear that their marriage is based on a version of Amelia created by her illness . Arizona learns that Sofia wants to move home . Jo confesses that she hates how much control her ex-husband has over her . 298 5 `` Danger Zone '' Cecilie Mosli Jalysa Conway October 26 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 26 ) 7.67 As Owen helps Megan make the trip to California where she will start her new life with Nathan and her son , Farouk , they reminisce on their time spent in Fallujah , Iraq . During their time overseas , Nathan proposed to Megan by recycling a necklace that was not initially intended for her . Teddy quickly recognized the necklace and the fact that Nathan cheated and pushed him to come clean . Despite the good news of the engagement , Megan dealt with heartbreak of not making strat , which is later revealed to her as Owen 's own doing . Distraught over her brother 's betrayal , she gets on a helicopter with one of the shooters who attacked their troops , leading to her disappearance . While Nathan awaits the arrival of Megan and Owen , he bonds with Farouk , who is having trouble acclimating to the free world . He also officially ends his relationship with Meredith , as does Owen with Amelia when he comes to terms with the notion that neither of them are truly happy . 299 6 `` Come on Down to My Boat , Baby '' Lisa Leone Kiley Donovan November 2 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 02 ) 7.38 As the new surgeon on the cover page of the medical journal , JSA , Meredith performs a rare surgical procedure to try and save a judge from his progressive cancer diagnosis . The men of Grey Sloan take a `` sick day '' and hang out on a Jackson 's newly purchased boat , whereas the women swipe for dates on Tinder . Arizona has broken up with Carina in preparation of Sofia moving back home . Amelia heads back to surgery but struggles with her confidence , recruiting the help of Dr. Koracik and seeking the encouragement of Richard . While Arizona and April repair a woman 's injuries caused by an accidental firing of a gun that was hidden inside her vagina , Bailey and Maggie take care of a hypochondriac who was a victim of the accidental shooting . At the surgeon - intern mixer , Meredith learns that she has been nominated for the annual Harper Avery award ; however , the news is overshadowed by the loss of her patient . Jackson gives half of his inheritance to Bailey to fund a research competition . Jo learns she is in the running for chief resident and decides to file for divorce from Paul after confiding her situation to the judge . DeLuca recognizes one of the new interns from his past , while Owen and Carina are caught kissing . 300 7 `` Who Lives , Who Dies , Who Tells Your Story '' Debbie Allen Krista Vernoff November 9 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 09 ) 8.13 When a roller coaster car derails off its tracks , Meredith 's plans to attend the Harper Avery award ceremony are put on hold . Three patients visiting the ER look like former doctors of the hospital : Drs . Cristina Yang , George O'Malley , and Izzie Stevens . Amelia and Owen learn to co-exist in the OR , after Amelia orders a surprise CT which shows a large hematoma that she is able to repair . As Arizona performs surgery on Liza , Izzie 's look - a-like , she reflects on her relationship with Callie and Mark in preparation for Sofia 's return to Seattle . Jo probes Alex to call Izzie and see how she is , to which Alex says he knows how she is : a happily married surgeon with three children . As they wait on Meredith to leave for Boston , Maggie bonds with Zola as they rehearse medical knowledge and talk about Derek . Bailey and Ben fight over his announcement to join the fire department , due to Bailey 's fear that he has commitment issues . Unable to fly out to Boston , in an OR -- in front of her friends and colleagues -- Meredith is announced the winner of the 2017 Harper Avery award . 301 8 `` Out of Nowhere '' Kevin McKidd William Harper November 16 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 16 ) 7.52 As the interns struggle to find their stride as surgeons , Jo begins her reign as chief resident . Things take a turn for the worse when the computer system gets hacked at Grey Sloan Memorial , as all of the patients ' records get held hostage for $20 million . Unable to understand why the ransom is so large and unprecedented , Bailey realizes it is due to the recently announced competition funded by Jackson 's inheritance . Without the use of the technological advancements to which the doctors have become accustomed , they must rely on their instincts to treat their patients ; Richard teaches his younger colleagues about how they worked in the `` Stone Age '' . One patient is transported to another hospital by a helicopter which encounters bad turbulence , causing a line to loosen and squirt blood everywhere . Jo gets the scariest surprise of her life when she runs into her abusive husband , Paul , on her way to stop Alex from inadvertently killing their patient . 302 9 `` 1 - 800 - 799 - 7233 '' Bill D'Elia Andy Reaser January 18 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 18 ) 8.27 While the staff of the hospital fawns over Dr. Paul Stadler and his legendary work as a surgeon , Jo tries to steer clear of him . Alex and Meredith team up to do their best to protect Jo during the process of filing for divorce . Drenched in blood , Jackson and Maggie save their patient 's life and then bond in the locker room after showers ; April and Owen use their trauma skills to work on patients in less than ideal and extremely hot conditions , very similar to when they were overseas . Bailey works with an exceptionally computer - savvy intern to take back the power against those who hacked the hospital ; this intern later outs himself as `` a proud trans man '' . After Paul 's fiancée , Jenny , tells him about her secret exchange with Jo , Meredith pretends to call in security to remove Paul from the hospital . However , he soon winds back up in the ER as a victim of a hit - and - run . This episode was followed by a PSA of Camilla Luddington reminding viewers that psychological abuse is a form of domestic violence and providing the number of the National Domestic Violence Hotline : 1 - 800 - 799 - 7233 , the episode 's title . 303 10 `` Personal Jesus '' Kevin Sullivan Zoanne Clack January 25 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 25 ) 8.62 With Paul recovering from surgery , Meredith questions Alex and Jo 's alibi . Believing that it is his fiancée , Jenny , who ran him over , Jo feels the need to consult her . April 's patient turns out to be the pregnant wife of her ex-fiancé , Matthew , proving to be more than an awkward situation , as she helps deliver their baby , and then watches him deal with his wife 's unexpected death . Jackson , Bailey , and April are confronted with racial profiling when police show up with a handcuffed 12 - year - old boy whom they shot when he was seen trying to enter his own home through a window . Police officers continue to treat him like a criminal in the ER , prompting Bailey and Ben to give Tucker `` the talk '' . When Jo and Jenny go to Paul 's room to announce they are taking him to court , he gets in a bout of rage , falls out of his bed , and knocks himself out becoming brain dead . Still legally his wife , Jo decides to take him off life support and have his organs donated . April ends up in the shower with Vikram , an intern , after she finds herself questioning her faith . 304 11 `` ( Do n't Fear ) the Reaper '' Nicole Rubio Elisabeth R. Finch February 1 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 01 ) 8.93 With her intuition and the more subtle signs of a heart attack , Bailey winds up in the ER at Seattle Presbyterian ; however , after her doctors treat her condescendingly , assuming she is imagining the heart attack and really just suffering from her OCD , she calls on Maggie to come save her . When Maggie arrives , she runs into Richard who found his way there based on Bailey 's record of attendance . With her life flashing before her eyes , Bailey reflects on her upbringing and her past as a surgeon with all the stressful fights and struggles she has gone through to get to this point in her life . Right before she goes under for emergency surgery to save her life , Bailey asks Maggie to call Ben who is able to get there before she wakes up . Ben announces that he has quit being a firefighter , but Bailey demands that he go back and never do anything other than what he truly loves . 305 12 `` Harder , Better , Faster , Stronger '' Jeannot Szwarc Kiley Donovan February 8 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 08 ) 7.32 As the contest draws near , a competitive edge and tension arise between the doctors and their selected interns vying for millions of dollars . In preparation to surprise Catherine on her birthday , Richard takes salsa dancing lessons with Maggie , who is struggling with the one year anniversary of her mother 's death . Amelia and Alex tag team a pediatric case , in order to save their patient 's ability to sing , as well as retain all mental capabilities . Meredith gets a visit from an old splenectomy patient , who is back with multiple miniature spleens , which guides Meredith to her idea for the competition , and Jackson gets pulled into his mother 's gender confirmation proposal , despite his wishes . 306 13 `` You Really Got a Hold on Me '' Nzingha Stewart Stacy McKee March 1 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 01 ) 7.52 A house fire brings two young boys , who were rescued by the Seattle Grace fire department -- Station 19 , to the ER . Meredith meets Andy Herrera , a firefighter , who has her hand inside the patient , clamping his abdominal aorta . While Andy gets a front row seat to view the action inside the OR , Ben struggles with idea of not being a surgeon anymore . Dr. Tom Koracik , Amelia 's former professor , shows up to help her with her research project , but quickly shoots down her ideas . However , when they confront each other about their difference in opinion , they come up with an idea to save her patient . Richard watches Bailey very closely , as it is her first day back after recovering from her heart attack . Jackson begins to worry about April and the fact that the interns have nicknamed her `` the Party '' . 307 14 `` Games People Play '' Chandra Wilson Jason Ganzel & Julie Wong March 8 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 08 ) 7.07 As Maggie 's budding romance with Clive gets more serious , Amelia suggests hosting a game night so they can secretly judge him . Meredith prepares to meet the owner of the patent she is pursuing ; however , she is surprised to find out that it is an old `` friend '' of Ellis ' . When Marie turns down the opportunity to hand over the patent , Meredith resorts to showing her the device has already been implemented and works . The legal team is brought in after April forgets to file a report when she accidentally severs a patient 's ear , which falls to the floor and causes Deluca to slip and fall , resulting in a concussion . Alex requests permission to use medicinal marijuana on his underage patient , but when her grandma learns of his treatment plan , she temporarily fires him . The game night takes a turn when April has an inebriated breakdown and an unexpected guest shows up -- Clive 's wife . Calling off the relationship , Jackson sees his opportunity and makes his move on Maggie . Richard reveals to Meredith that Marie and Ellis had a falling out , which leads Meredith to the conclusion that she has been played . 308 15 `` Old Scars , Future Hearts '' Ellen Pompeo Tameson Duffy March 15 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 15 ) 7.18 Alex , Jo , and Maggie reflect on their first loves as they prepare their teenaged patient for heart surgery ; however , when a heart transplant becomes available , he denies it until his boyfriend breaks up with him . Marie tells Meredith that her friendship with Ellis ended when Ellis left her name off her Harper Avery award winning research . Marie gives Meredith the ultimatum that for her to get the patent , she must make a statement that the Grey Method is now the Grey - Cerone Method . After a night spent together , April confesses to Tom that her deviant behavior is a result of her failing faith and hatred of God . Maggie and Jackson learn to move past their quirks and baggage . Alex fears that Jo 's fellowship applications indicate that she 's willing to leave him behind in Seattle ; however , in a twist of events , Jo asks Alex to marry her and he quickly accepts . 309 16 `` Caught Somewhere in Time '' Nicole Rubio Jalysa Conway March 22 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 22 ) 7.61 Bailey 's patient turns out to be one of her childhood heroes , a female astronaut who is in the process of building a time machine . Meredith throws in the towel on her research , since she is no longer receiving the patent . Richard and Catherine learn of Jackson and Maggie 's relationship , which causes some awkward tension as Jackson , Catherine , and Richard work together on the vaginoplasty case . April hijacks the trauma certification drill , and leaves the interns in tears and doubt . After Bailey loses her patient , she finds the inspiration needed to name her research project `` The Trailblazer '' , and Jo reignites Meredith 's will to continue on with her project . Amelia and Owen continue to pursue their `` friends with benefits '' relationship until she finds out how close Owen and Teddy are , and Arizona helps Sofia get accustomed to her new life away from New York . 310 17 `` One Day Like This '' Kevin McKidd Elisabeth R. Finch March 29 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 29 ) 7.15 April crosses Bailey when she disagrees on Bailey 's treatment plan for a rabbi who came in three times for diverticulitis and only gave him antibiotics , and who is now suffering from toxic epidermal necrolysis as a side effect . As April treats the rabbi , he gives her a lesson on faith which allows her to reflect on her recent struggles . Meredith buddies up with a new transplant surgeon from the Mayo Clinic , Dr Nick Marsh , who is recovering from a recent kidney transplant of his own . After his lab results come back , Meredith rushes him to surgery to remove a blood clot and successfully saves his kidney . After calling it quits with Amelia , Owen reconnects with Teddy , who now lives in Germany . However , after the short , happy reunion , Teddy learns that just a short while ago he was still sleeping with Amelia and refuses to be his second choice . 311 18 `` Hold Back the River '' Geary McLeod Alex Manugian April 5 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 05 ) 6.84 Richard is surprised to see his AA sponsor , Ollie , arrive at Grey Sloan in an ambulance . After she denies him the ability to save her life once more , he enlists the help of Maggie and Meredith . Now that Owen is back in the States , he has to face the disdain of Arizona and Amelia 's failure to fix things with Teddy . In between the personal conversations , Arizona and Owen look further into a fraudulent oncologist . In their pursuit , they coincidentally learn that Arizona has breast cancer -- at least until it was proven that the image produced was a fake . Alex , Amelia , and Tom resect Noah 's brain tumor , despite never performing the procedure before . Though successful , Amelia and Tom decide that it is too risky to do the same for Kimmy , which infuriates Alex. April strives to make amends with her colleagues , and Jackson , claiming that she has found Jesus again . Meredith and Jo learn that their research can be successful without the polymer , and that they can help patients grow livers and save lives . 312 19 `` Beautiful Dreamer '' Jeannot Szwarc Meg Marinis April 12 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 12 ) 6.97 Bailey gets caught off guard when an agent from ICE ( Immigration and Customs Enforcement ) shows up looking for one of her surgical interns , Sam Bello . Unaware of the situation , Sam explains that she is a `` dreamer '' protected by DACA . While Meredith and Andrew scheme up ideas to keep Sam from being deported back to El Salvador , Bailey distracts Agent Fields with concerns about his own health . As Arizona and Carina move forward in their research by learning from their previous patient 's death , April is surprised to see Matthew back at Grey Sloan with his baby who is failing to thrive . When Alex refuses to give up on Kimmy , Jo realizes Kimmy 's dream and signs off on discharge papers . Catherine comes back to support Richard who has stayed with Ollie right through her final breath . Meredith sends Sam to Zurich to study under Cristina ; Owen signs up to become a foster parent , and Jackson confronts Maggie about her tendency to resist their relationship . Jackson directs the Harper Avery Foundation to release a researcher from an agreement so she can collaborate with Amelia ; Catherine tells Richard that the hospital is now doomed . 313 20 `` Judgment Day '' Sydney Freeland Julie Wong April 19 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 19 ) 6.93 As the next stage of the research contest begins , the Top 25 proposals are presented by their respective owners who have gathered to present in front of a panel and audience . Arizona shares cookies , provided by a grateful patient , with her colleagues ; however , she later learns they were laced with cannabis . Due to the mishap , the presentations are postponed , and the interns are summoned to replace the stoned attendings . Meredith walks Jo through surgery after Bailey is forced to scrub out and accidentally injures Meredith 's hand . Jo makes effective use of Richard 's project . Catherine tells Jackson of the 13 cases of sexual harassment that were filed against his grandfather and the major settlements used to cover them up . April overhears and then shares the secret with Bailey , who has a secret of her own -- she is partnering with a sex toy company to make her `` Trailblazer '' device . Owen gets a call about his first foster child , which makes him nervous until Amelia saves him . Meredith learns about the dark past of Harper Avery and , in addition , that Marie Cerone was one of the 13 women . Richard fires intern , Dr Vikram Roy , who was found practicing under the influence . 314 21 `` Bad Reputation '' Kevin McKidd Mark Driscoll April 26 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 26 ) TBD With word spreading about Harper Avery , Meredith decides to return her and Ellis ' awards to the foundation . Catherine hires a crisis management specialist , who brings in a patient for Jackson and Meredith to heal as PR stunt. Bailey shuts down the innovation contest for fear of word getting out that an Avery funded it , so April volunteers her time to plan Alex and Jo 's wedding . Alex and Jo get awkward when , Olivia , the former `` Syph nurse , '' returns to the hospital with her son -- who swallowed a whistle -- and begins planting seeds of doubt . Owen takes Leo in for his check up with his birth mom in tow , who ends up talking to Amelia . Thinking she can sponsor her with her drug addiction , Amelia takes her in as a foster child of her own . Meredith and Jackson think up a way to save the foundation by changing its name to the Catherine Fox Foundation dedicated to all the women victimized by the previous regime . Alex learns that his bank account balance is awfully high due to his mom not cashing the checks he 's been sending her , and Vikram plans to sue the hospital for wrongful termination . 315 22 `` Fight for Your Mind '' Jesse Williams Andy Reaser May 3 , 2018 ( 2018 - 05 - 03 ) TBD 316 23 `` Cold as Ice '' Bill D'Elia William Harper May 10 , 2018 ( 2018 - 05 - 10 ) TBD 317 24 `` All of Me '' Debbie Allen Krista Vernoff May 17 , 2018 ( 2018 - 05 - 17 ) TBD