No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) `` Pilot '' Todd Holland Linwood Boomer January 9 , 2000 ( 2000 - 01 - 09 ) 10012 - 99 - 179 22.4 12 - year - old Malcolm ( Frankie Muniz ) lives with his dysfunctional family : neurotic father , Hal ( Bryan Cranston ) , control - freak mother Lois ( Jane Kaczmarek ) , dim - witted bully 13 - year - old Reese ( Justin Berfield ) , and odd 8 - year - old Dewey ( Erik Per Sullivan ) . His favorite elder brother , 16 - year - old Francis ( Christopher Masterson ) , has been packed off to military school for chronic misbehavior . At school Malcolm tries to keep his head down and avoid the school bully Spath , but his teachers spot his intelligence and testing reveals his I.Q. to be 165 . When Lois forces him to join the school 's gifted class , Malcolm objects because he does n't want to be bullied for being a `` Krelboyne '' . Frustrated at being ostracized by the regular kids , Malcolm lashes out at Spath , and with some help from his new friend Stevie , fortuitously humiliates Spath and becomes the nerds ' hero . `` Red Dress '' Arlene Sanford Alan J. Higgins January 16 , 2000 ( 2000 - 01 - 16 ) 06 - 99 - 103 23.3 Lois is supposed to meet Hal at an expensive restaurant for their anniversary date , but Lois forgets to go after she finds her red dress burned and flushed down the toilet , sending her into a violent rage . She spends the night punishing Reese , Dewey , and Malcolm , trying to figure out which of them burned her dress . Meanwhile , Hal makes friends with a member of the restaurant staff while waiting for Lois . Malcolm , seeing that he and his brothers can not fight Lois alone , calls Francis for help against Lois . It is later revealed that Hal burned the dress by accident . `` Home Alone 4 '' Todd Holland Michael Glouberman & Andrew Orenstein January 23 , 2000 ( 2000 - 01 - 23 ) 06 - 99 - 106 19.3 While Hal and Lois are away for the weekend , Francis comes home from military school to babysit Malcolm , Reese , and Dewey . Malcolm overhears Lois and Hal 's discussion about Francis and believes he will be allowed to return home permanently if he does a good job , so he convinces the other boys to be on their best behavior . This all turns out to be for naught when Francis ' delinquent friends come over and trash the house . Although they manage to fix it , Malcolm gets a head injury from broken shelves ( thanks to Hal buying cheap ones ) and they try to find a way to pay the medical bill of $400 for him so Hal and Lois ca n't find out , so he convinces Malcolm 's teacher Caroline Miller ( Catherine Lloyd Burns ) to pay him off . Seeing the good work Francis has done , they send him back for military school because they realize how much he is `` improving '' there , much to the dismay of the brothers . `` Shame '' Nick Marck David Richardson February 6 , 2000 ( 2000 - 02 - 06 ) 06 - 99 - 107 16.8 Fed up with his constant abuse , Malcolm beats up a huge bully named Kevin who wo n't leave him alone , only to learn that Kevin is a 7 - year - old brat who uses his strength to bully others , allowing the bully to walk away unpunished . Malcolm feels guilty and tries to clear his conscience by signing up for a charity run , but fails when he trips on his untied shoe at the beginning of the run . Dewey is injured climbing a tree , so Hal cuts it down , angering the neighbors because they can see their house now , but then , Hal misses the tree , so he plants another one . Francis decides to steal the slides for the military academy 's disgusting sex education slideshow , but he finds some immature slides of Commandant Spangler ( Daniel Von Bargen ) in his office , which he replaces with the original slides . However , Spangler shows a cunning and trickier side by showing the cadets slides of Francis picking his nose and urinating drunk . 5 5 `` Malcolm Babysits '' Jeff Melman Maggie Bandur & Pang - Ni Landrum February 13 , 2000 ( 2000 - 02 - 13 ) 06 - 99 - 105 17.9 Because of Dewey always leaving food in the crawlspace under the house , the whole family is forced to live in a trailer owned by Lois ' coworker , Craig , while their house is being fumigated . However , Malcolm ends up spending more time at the home of an upper - middle - class family who has hired him as their babysitter , but he learns that they were secretly videotaping him . He later blackmails the family to leave him alone and quits the job , also revealing a horrible secret about the family 's wife . Meanwhile at the academy , Francis finds the corpse of a former janitor in the basement of the military school , who was missing for 16 years , and teams up with his friends to give the forgotten custodian a proper burial by sending him down the lake in a burned boat and performing a burial at sea , which turns into a disaster . 6 6 `` Sleepover '' Ken Kwapis Dan Kopelman February 20 , 2000 ( 2000 - 02 - 20 ) 06 - 99 - 110 N / A Malcolm stays overnight at Stevie 's house . He convinces Stevie to sneak out of the house with him and they go to an arcade downtown , but Stevie 's wheelchair is stolen , and they have to team up to find his wheelchair while dragging Stevie in a cart . Meanwhile , to prove that he is mature , Lois challenges Reese to give Dewey a bath and put him to sleep in exchange for being allowed to stay up late to watch a scary movie , but the task proves more difficult than he expected , just as Lois thought it would . At the academy , Francis is hazed by a group of students , but tells them their tricks are amateurish to what Lois did to him , and the students decide to worship Lois . 7 7 `` Francis Escapes '' Todd Holland Linwood Boomer February 27 , 2000 ( 2000 - 02 - 27 ) 06 - 99 - 101 16.6 Francis deserts from military school to reunite with his girlfriend Bebe , a boring and stupid woman of average looks about whom his siblings are disgusted and mystified that he loves so deeply , but she breaks up with him as soon as he gets home ( finding him boring and over attached ) . Lois finds out Francis has left school , but does not know where he went . Malcolm discovers Francis hiding in the woods near their house and brings him food , though keeping the secret from his brothers and parents gets more and more complicated by the time . After Hal finds him , he decides to drive him across the country back to the military school so Lois wo n't find him , sympathetic to his son 's romantic travails . 8 8 `` Krelboyne Picnic '' Todd Holland Michael Glouberman & Andrew Orenstein March 12 , 2000 ( 2000 - 03 - 12 ) 06 - 99 - 109 15.5 The family ( including Francis , who is home for the weekend ) spend the day at ' Cirque de Krelboyne ' , a picnic where Malcolm 's classmates demonstrate their abilities . Hal violates the picnic 's vegetarian policy by bringing a meat - filled cooler on the picnic , and Lois takes care of a PTA control freak who strictly oversees the food and drinks there , escalating a war . Reese looks forward to giving the Krelboynes a hard time but is soon on the receiving end when one of the kids gets his older brother involved . Malcolm , desperate to ditch the picnic before his act , asks Francis to help him escape only to be quickly left to his own devices when the latter hooks up with a girl . Despite desperate attempts to get out of it Malcolm is eventually forced to take the stage where he stuns the audience with his maths abilities , remembering two random credit card numbers after only seeing them for a second and rattling off increasingly complicated sums . The family is stunned at witnessing first - hand just how smart Malcolm is , causing him to worry that he 'll be treated differently . They soon reassure him that nothing has changed . 9 9 `` Lois vs. Evil '' Todd Holland Jack Amiel & Michael Begler March 19 , 2000 ( 2000 - 03 - 19 ) 06 - 99 - 104 16.3 After a mishap of a steam cleaner , Lois finds out that Dewey stole a $150 bottle of cognac from the store where she works due to Malcolm and Reese pressuring him . She makes him return it , but she 's fired by a tyrannic assistant manager named Mr. Pinter after he catches them returning the bottle back . In anger she rips his toupeé off and reveals that he is bald and Lois accuses Pinter for firing her out of spite for originally being up for a promotion for assistant manager . This leaves the family struggling financially , but Lois gets her job back from Pinter when she confronts him for his wrongdoings including taking credit for sales reports she wrote for him , having an affair with the district manager 's wife and hiding marijuana in his desk . Craig and the others overhear this and plans to tell the district manager all about it . In humiliation , Pinter quits his job right away . Francis , chosen to be part of the color guard at a beauty pageant , gains special backstage dressing room access when some of the contestants think he 's gay , which he uses to his advantage , but he is so much attracted to the girls and wants to convince the contestants otherwise . 10 10 `` Stock Car Races '' Todd Holland David Richardson April 2 , 2000 ( 2000 - 04 - 02 ) 06 - 99 - 102 14.4 Instead of letting the boys go to school , Hal decides to sneak them out of the class and takes them on a stock car race , and the boys try to sneak on the pit lanes , causing mayhem with the security guards . Lois ' hunt for her lost paycheck unearths incriminating items that Hal and the boys stashed around the house , and with Malcolm 's teacher , who arrived because of his absence , she starts to collect all the incriminating and provocative items they have stashed in the following years , and the women have a great time together . After the teacher leaves , Hal arrives home with the boys and finds the paycheck in the trash , and are horrified to find the evidence of their crimes , and she punishes them . Meanwhile , fed up with Spangler and his noisy dog that the students hate , Francis sneaks a huge snake into the academy and stashes it in his locker . To his dismay , he forgets to lock it , sending the snake loose and ending up eating the dog before escaping . When Spangler finds out , he punishes the cadets for Francis ' latest infraction ( because he was the original owner of the snake ) . The cadets ended up not caring about Spangler 's punishment because Francis got rid the dog . 11 11 `` Funeral '' Arlene Sanford Maggie Bandur & Pang - Ni Landrum April 9 , 2000 ( 2000 - 04 - 09 ) 06 - 99 - 111 15.3 The family reluctantly prepares for Aunt Helen 's funeral , but Lois finally gets fed - up by the collective attitude and announces she 's going to take a bubble bath and everyone else can do their own things . Hal decides to listen to his old record player , while Dewey invites a friend , and after they leave a huge spill , they start to clean it , causing a mess in the kitchen . Francis is upset that Aunt Helen 's death was not reported to him and Reese is angered for his own reasons . This frees Malcolm to attend a concert with a girl named Julie , but she catches him in his underwear while changing and runs away , tripping on Hal 's wires and being sent into a pool of soap and trash , causing her to leave in tears . Fed up with the behavior of his parents and his brothers , Malcolm uses Francis ' advice to use a scapegoat ( after learning that Lois blamed him for most of the family 's problems ) . Malcolm tells his parents that Reese broke Dewey 's birthday present and the reason he seemed so enthusiastic to go to the funeral was that he had planned to stash the remains in the coffin . Angered by Reese 's behavior , Lois promptly decides that they will attend the funeral after all so he can apologize to Aunt Helen ( by making him stand in the corner in the funeral with his nose facing the wall and threatening Reese into compliance should he defy her ) . 12 12 `` Cheerleader '' Todd Holland Dan Kopelman April 16 , 2000 ( 2000 - 04 - 16 ) 06 - 99 - 112 13.0 Reese joins the cheerleading squad because he has a crush on one of the cheerleaders . Malcolm is embarrassed to have a brother who is a cheerleader , and even the Krelboynes are making fun of him , but he ends up helping Reese learn his routines anyway , and he becomes really talented . Meanwhile , Dewey wants a new toy , desperately trying to talk Lois into buying it , and Hal , hearing Reese crying because of the girl and seeing him practicing cheerleading routines with Malcolm in the backyard , tries to give all the boys `` The Talk '' . 13 13 `` Rollerskates '' Ken Kwapis Alan J. Higgins April 30 , 2000 ( 2000 - 04 - 30 ) 06 - 99 - 108 14.5 Malcolm wants to play street hockey on rollers with his friends on the street , but he does n't know to do it , so Hal gives Malcolm roller skating lessons . Malcolm becomes frustrated with his lessons and says `` the F word '' to his dad . Hal responds by not only punishing Malcolm but also typing up several pages of obscene words and forcing Malcolm to look him in the eye and say them to him . Malcolm relents , but manages to do it , realizing the meaning of swearing words , and then agreeing not to make eye contact with Hal for the next weeks , and he finally learns how to roll on skates . Meanwhile , Lois throws out her back by screaming too loud at Reese for tracking mud in the house and refuses to take painkillers until Reese secretly sneaks them in her milk . At Marlin Academy , Francis fakes the same back injury to get out of a wilderness survival exercise at the academy , but is caught and forced to go on the exercise . 14 14 `` The Bots and the Bees '' Chris Koch Alan J. Higgins & David Richardson May 7 , 2000 ( 2000 - 05 - 07 ) 06 - 00 - 202 12.3 Lois visits Francis at military school after he has a medical emergency . Hal , no longer under Lois ' supervision , quickly regresses into his wild teenage persona . He resumes smoking , stops going to work , and lets Reese and Dewey get away with everything . Meanwhile , Malcolm and the Krelboynes decide to enter a killer robot competition , but Hal takes over their robot - building project , causing everyone else to abandon the idea . Hal ends up builds a dangerous robot complete with a bee cannon . He gets crazy over the whole project , and the boys end up launching the bees onto him to stop him . Meanwhile , Francis is upset when everyone else at the academy ( even Spangler ) gets along well with Lois , finding her a far cry from the bossy demanding woman he had often described . 15 15 `` Smunday '' Jeff Melman Michael Glouberman & Andrew Orenstein May 14 , 2000 ( 2000 - 05 - 14 ) 06 - 00 - 201 12.6 Lois , down with a severe case of the flu , does n't realize she has spent two days in bed ; thinking Monday is Sunday , she does n't make the boys go to school -- or lift their latest grounding about giving away Dewey 's bike . The boys are originally happy to get the day off school , but soon realize they 've made a mistake as the TV is still shut off as part of the punishment and they ca n't leave the house lest they be seen and reported ( although it wo n't matter , since Hal is bound to find out when he gets home anyway ) . Francis calls the boys about hiding an incriminating letter about his latest mishap on the academy involving a prank to a prestige university in Alabama and offers them assistance by suggesting an arcade where the owner does n't bust truants . However , when the boys find out from Lois that they are grounded because Francis told her what they did with the bike , the boys refuse to cooperate with him . So Francis decides to get his lowlife pals to get the letter , but Malcolm creates a decoy letter for them to take and leaves the real one with Dewey who , to his horror , hides it under Lois ' pillow , causing her to read it . Although now realizing it 's Monday , Lois is caught up with both her flu and Francis ' prank to the academy that she ignores punishing the boys for skipping school . With Lois ready to send Francis to a work farm , the boys try to come up with a prank that would make Lois turn her attention back to them . Meanwhile , Hal visits a Porsche dealership and ends up ruining a car because he caught Lois ' flu . This is made worse with the boys ' prank that causes damage to the car Hal planned to buy . The episode ends in a stalemate which the boys spend the night on top of the roof as Lois demands for them to come down . 16 16 `` Water Park ( Part 1 ) '' Ken Kwapis Maggie Bandur & Pang - Ni Landrum May 21 , 2000 ( 2000 - 05 - 21 ) 06 - 00 - 203 13.9 The family takes a trip to a water park . Lois and Hal sneak alcohol into the park , try to avoid the boys and have fun . Malcolm and Reese engage in an escalating war of pranks . After they spill Lois and Hal 's food and drink she catches up with them at the top of a giant water slide and berates them . Malcolm pushes her in , but she grabs both of them and they slide down together , with Lois still yelling at them . Dewey was unable to go because of an ear infection and is left with a strict elderly babysitter ( Bea Arthur ) . After an awkward start , they get on well and have so much fun that the babysitter collapses and is taken away in an ambulance . Dewey chases a red balloon blowing around in the street . When he finally catches it , it bursts and he chases a paper bag . Meanwhile , Spangler learns that Francis has been letting him win at pool to keep him in a good mood . Spangler threatens to punish Francis if he loses again , while the other cadets threaten to beat him up if he wins . When Francis misses an easy shot , Spangler starts trying to throw the match , resulting in epic battle with both players trying their best to lose .