State or Union Territory Code Image Andhra Pradesh AP Arunachal Pradesh AR Assam AS Bihar BR Patna Chhattisgarh CG Janjgir - Champa Goa GA Gujarat GJ Surat Haryana HR Himachal Pradesh HP Jammu and Kashmir JK Jharkhand JH Karnataka KA Mangalore Kerala KL Madhya Pradesh MP Maharashtra MH Manipur MN Meghalaya ML Mizoram MZ Nagaland NL Odisha OD Punjab PB Rajasthan RJ Sikkim SK Tamil Nadu TN Telangana TS Tripura TR Uttarakhand UA / UK Uttar Pradesh UP West Bengal WB Andaman and Nicobar Islands AN Chandigarh CH Dadra and Nagar Haveli DN Daman and Diu DD Delhi DL Lakshadweep LD Pondicherry PY Former codes ( edit ) List of codes no longer in use : Code State OR Orissa UA Uttaranchal Districts ( edit ) E.g. ' AP 41 , AP 09 Guntakal And Velagapudi RTO in Andhra Pradesh . Since all the states have two or more districts , the district is given the charge of registering the vehicle . A vehicle bears the registration of the district in which it is bought rather than the district of residence of the owner . In many states , officials insist that the plates be changed to the local numbers if the owner shifts residence . The number of districts in the state need not equal the number of permutations of the district field of the licence plate . Often , in large cities the geographical district can be split into two or more administered regions , each governed by an RTO . A case is the Krishna District which has the plate bearings AP 11 , AP 14 , AP 19 , AP 21 , AP 22 , AP 85 . Also the 01 digit may reflect the capital district of the state , though it may not always be the case . In some states such as West Bengal , each RTO issues two numbers , one for commercial vehicles and another for private vehicles . E.g. Asansol , has the numbers WB 38 for private vehicles and WB 37 for commercial or public ones . Unique numbering ( edit ) The last four digits numbers are unique to the vehicle . Usually , the lower 100 numbers are government registered numbers , but it may not always be the case . Special `` lucky '' numbers ( also called fancy numbers ) such as 3333 or 6666 fetch a premium and may touch above ₹ 100,000 . Prior to 2005 , Karnataka used to charge ₹ 1000 for obtaining a unique last four digit number . These numbers used to be issued either from the current running series or from one or two future series . When the numbering system was computerized numbers could be issued from any future series . However the Karnataka RTO steeply hiked these charges to ₹ 6000 if the number to be obtained is in the current series , and ₹ 25,000 if it was to be issued from a future series . It was increased again in 2010 from ₹ 6,000 to ₹ 20,000 , and from ₹ 25,000 to ₹ 75,000 . As of 2007 , Maharashtra has increased the price of unique numbers to the range of ₹ 25,000 to ₹ 125,000 . In 2012 , Maharashtra increased the price from ₹ 125,000 to ₹ 200,000 . In Uttarakhand , number 0001 and 0786 has the highest charge of ₹ 50,000 . In Gujarat , RTO is charging Rs. 500 for 2 - wheeler vehicles and Rs. 1000 for 4 - wheeler vehicles for chosen numberplate , but the chosen numberplate not be unique , Ex 4521 , 6523 , etc . For VIP number 1 ( 4 - wheeler vehicle ) , RTO distribute an application form to bid for unique numberplate which will be attached with amount of money . The highest payer of the amount will get the unique number like 1 . Sometimes it takes ₹ 200,000 to ₹ 500,000 ( maximum ) for this type of number . In Andhra Pradesh the RTO Follows the Auction system for unique numbers . The highest bidder gets the number . Numbers like 0909 0999 0099 0009 are in high demand always and also numbers like 0786 have a high premium and maximum bidders for the auction . Unique letters ( edit ) If all the 9999 numbers are used up , the RTO adds the letter A before the number space so that more numbers can be accommodated . In some states , the two letters also give the description of the make of the vehicle . The letters may also reflect the subdivision of the district if the district is geographically large . In Tamil Nadu , the letter G is reserved for Government ( both the Union Government of India and State Governments ) vehicles and the letter N is reserved for Government Transport Buses , while A to F , H to M and P to Z are for passenger vehicles of all kinds , including commercial vehicles . For e.g. TN 60 AG 3333 could be a government vehicle registered in Theni , whereas a TN 58 N 4006 could be a government Bus registered in Madurai District . In Andhra Pradesh and Telangana , the letter Z is reserved for the State Road Transport ( APSRTC ) and TSRTC buses ( AP * * Z , TS * * Z , and so on ) . The letter P ( AP 18P , TS 9P , and so on ; -- Vijayawada RTO and Khairatabad RTO ) is reserved for the state police vehicles. the letters T , U , V , W , X , Y is reserved for commercial ones , going on as TA , TB ... , UA , UB ... and so on whereas rest of the letters are reserved for private passenger vehicles of all kinds . In Kerala , the number series KL 15 is reserved for the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation ( KSRTC ) buses . For e.g. KL 15 3431 is an Ashok Leyland KSRTC bus with vehicle code TS - 340 . Otherwise , all registrations are common , even for commercial vehicles . Also , KL 01 ( Thiruvananthapuram RTO ) issues registrations for police vehicles around the state . In Assam , AS 20 is reserved for government buses and AS 30 and AS 31 is reserved for Assam state police . To register commercial vehicles , the letter C is used and goes on like AC , BC , etc . For private vehicles of all kinds , registrations are common . In West Bengal , there are different number codes for commercial vehicles and private vehicles . RTOs have assigned the letter T to some commercial vehicles , e.g. WB 04 TE , and so on . In areas like Alipur , Barasat , Barrackpore and Howrah , letters were assigned for different classes of vehicles for private vehicles . Now , the same letters are used for all types of vehicles . Kolkata 's main RTO at Beltala ( WB01 , WB02 , WB03 and WB04 ) also has separate RTO number codes for two wheelers and private cars , as well as goods and passenger vehicles In Jharkhand , all registrations are common , even for commercial vehicles . In Odisha , all registrations are common , even for commercial vehicles . Bhubaneswar has two registration numbers OD 02 and OD 33 . The OD 02 is used for RTO jurisdiction of Old Bhubaneswar and OD 33 is used for RTO jurisdiction of Patia , Bhubaneswar . In Jammu and Kashmir , all registrations are common , even for commercial vehicles . However , the letter Y is used for all government buses . In Punjab , all registrations are common , even for commercial vehicles . However , PB01 is used to register tourist vehicles . In Bihar , all RTO 's assigns the letter P for passenger vehicles ( Commercial vehicles and SUVs ) and G for goods vehicles , e.g. BR 01 PC 2433 is a BSRTC bus in Patna . However , for private vehicles , all registrations are common . In Himachal Pradesh HP 01 and HP 02 are reserved for tourist vehicles and also the first letter of the district is used , e.g. HP 01 D refers to a taxi in Dharamshala . Otherwise , all registrations are common , even for commercial vehicles . In Maharashtra , the two letters in each RTO is classified for a different kind of vehicle , e.g. MH 14 BT is assigned for MSRTC buses in Pimpri , MH 02 CR is for commercial vehicles in Mumbai , MH 31 SW is for two wheelers in Nagpur , MH 04 GM is for cars in Thane , MH 12 JK is for special purpose vehicles in Pune and MH 15 DC is for cars , MH 15 Z is for auto rickshaw and MH 15 FV is for goods vehicle and MH 15 FM and MH 15 TC are for special number vehicles in Nashik city. ( TC series in given in 2016 for fancy number and FM series for Agricultural tractor as sell of tractor in Nashik is highest in INDIA ) All other registrations are common . For e.g. after letter A letter B will be given after z letter AAwill be given and so on . Karnataka started number series KA 01 AA 1111 from 1 January 1990 . While issuing these numbers they reserved AA for certain categories of vehicles . Numbers issued without AA e.g. KA 01 1111 was for commercial vehicles , E for two wheelers and M for cars . The letter G is reserved for Government vehicles , F for KSRTC and BMTC buses , T for Tractor and trailer . The letters I and O , were never issued . In all cases when the last number 9999 is exhausted the next letter is used for that vehicle category . So blank , A , B , C , D for commercial vehicles ; T for tractors and trailers ; E , H , J , KL , Q , R , S , U , V , W , X , Y for two wheelers ; M , N , P , Z for passenger vehicles . Additional letters are added as each series is exhausted e.g. M , MA , F , FA and so on . In Madhya Pradesh the numbering system is similar to other states , with a few exceptions : MP 01 and MP 02 are reserved for the state government , while MP 03 is reserved for the police . Other vehicles are registered in RTOs starting from MP 04 . In Madhya Pradesh vehicles used in agricultural purpose are numbered with series A ( e.g. AA , AB , AC etc . ) , big cars by B , small cars by C , special purpose vehicle such as ambulance , crane etc. by D , medium size goods vehicle by G , heavy vehicles by H , small loading vehicle by L , motor cycles by M , passenger buses by P , passenger auto by R , Scooter by S , taxis by T and passengers by E , F , I , J , K , N , Q , U to Z . When a series is exhausted or reaches MZ , the RTO can start any other series . For example , Bhopal adopted AM , DM , EM following M while Indore started NA , NB , NC , and now series Q is running . This allocation is similar in Chhattisgarh also . In Goa , the letter X is reserved for the State Road Transport ( Kadamba Transport Corporation ) buses ( e.g. GA 03 X 0109 ) . The letters T , U , V , W , Y , Z are reserved for commercial vehicles , whereas the letter G is reserved for government vehicles . Again , the two letter in each RTO is classified for a different kind of vehicle , e.g. GA 07 C is for cars in Panaji and GA 03 AB is for two wheelers in Mapusa . In Uttar Pradesh , all registrations are common for private vehicles . Districts use G for government vehicles and any letter for commercial . Currently most districts use T , AT , BT , etc. ; some use N , AN , BN , etc. , and a few use B , H , etc . In Uttarakhand , the letter C is reserved for goods vehicles , T for Taxis , P for public transport vehicles and G for government vehicles and A , B , D to O , Q to S , and U to Z for private passenger vehicles of all kinds , with an additional letter added later such as TA , CA , GA , PA and so on . For example , the official vehicle of the state Home Secretary uses the number `` UK 07 GF 9999 '' and that of the Director General ( Information and Public Relations ) uses the number `` UK 07 GE 9000 '' . The vehicle of the Chairman of the State Sugar Corporation has the number `` UK 07 GE 0900 '' . The registration number of the official vehicle of the now ousted Chief Minister read `` UK 07 GB 0999 '' . Further , UK 07 TA 0251 could be a taxi in Dehradun and UK 07 PA 0250 could be a local bus in Dehradun . In the North East excluding Assam : Meghalaya issues ML 01 , ML 02 , ML 03 for government vehicles including transport , and registration is common for all vehicles . Sikkim issues the letter P as prefix for all types of private vehicles and T for taxis , J for commercial jeeps , B for buses , and Z , D for other commercial vehicles . For state transport buses , the SK 04 XXXX series of Jorethang was used and have now gone back to register them under B series . Arunachal Pradesh issues AR 02 for its government buses , otherwise all registrations are common , even for commercial vehicles . Nagaland issues different letters for all types of vehicles . In Tripura , Mizoram and Manipur , all registrations are common , even for commercial vehicles . In Gujarat , government vehicles have number plate with letter G and GJ , which is reserved for government firm vehicles . ( e.g. : GJ 18 G 5123 and GJ 18 GJ 6521 ) . All other letters except G are used by passenger vehicles . The letters T , U , V , W , X , Y , Z are reserved for commercial vehicles and goes on in the series AT , AU , ... , BT , BU , ... , and so on . Also , the number series GJ 18 Y is reserved for the Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation ( GSRTC ) buses ( e.g. GJ 18 Y 5432 ) . GJ 18 V was used earlier . After the completion of this series GJ 18 Y was used ( e.g. GJ 18 V 8844 ) . Currently , GJ 18 Z is in use . All other letters used for passengers . Also a letter is prefixed for usage in all classes of vehicles , e.g. GJ 01 J to JS are for two wheelers in Ahmedabad , and GJ 01 R to RS are reserved for private four wheelers in Ahmedabad . However , after the exhaustion of private series in Ahmedabad , vehicles are being registered with the T to Z suffix pattern to meet the demand . In Delhi , the following letters are used for registration - A for ambulances , B for mini buses , C for cars , F for numbers on demand for private vehicles , G for trucks , K for school vehicles , L for trucks , N for NRIs ( e.g. DL 3C NA , DL 2S ND ) , P is for buses , Q are for commercial three wheelers , R for autorickshaws and radio taxis , S for two wheelers , T for city taxis , Y for private taxis , V , W , E , U , M , Z for other commercial vehicles . DL 1 at Mall Road registers only A , E , G , K , L , M , P , Q , R , T , U , V , W , Y and Z . In Chandigarh , the following letters are used for registration : T is for trucks , G is for government vehicles . CH 02 registers commercial vehicles . Registration for all private vehicles is common . In Rajasthan , the following letters are used for registration : M , S , B for two wheelers , C for cars , P for buses , G for trucks , T for taxis and tourist passenger vehicles . Earlier , numbers between 1 and 50 were used , e.g. RJ 14 2M and RJ 14 6C were used for vehicles but now this system has been stopped . In Haryana , there are different codes for commercial vehicles and different for private vehicles . Private registrations are common . In the union territories of Puducherry , Andaman and Nicobar , Lakshadweep , Daman and Diu , and Dadra and Nagar Haveli , all registrations are common , even for commercial vehicles . High Security registration plates ( edit ) On June 1 , 2005 , the Government of India had amended rule 50 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules , 1989 , mandating introduction of new tamper proof High Security Registration ( HSRP ) number plates . All new motorised road vehicles that came into the market after that needed to adhere to the new plates , while existing vehicles had been given two years to comply . Features incorporated include the number plate having a patented chromium hologram , a laser numbering containing the alpha - numeric identification of both the testing agency and manufacturers and a retro - reflective film bearing a verification inscription `` India '' at a 45 - degree inclination . The characters are embossed on the plate for better visibility . The letters `` IND '' were printed in a light shade of blue on the observers left side under the hologram . However it has yet to be implemented since the various state Governments has not yet appointed an official source for manufacture of these plates , due to disputes which are currently in various Indian courts . On 8 April 2011 the Supreme Court of India summoned the transport secretaries of Delhi , Punjab and Uttar Pradesh for contempt of court proceedings regarding nonenforcement of the high - security registration plates . The Supreme Court on 30 November 2004 , had clarified that all states had to comply with the scheme . Currently all of North East including Assam , Gujarat , Rajasthan , Jammu and Kashmir , West Bengal , Karnataka and Goa are the only states which have complied in full . The states of Bihar , Jharkhand , Uttar Pradesh , Madhya Pradesh , Chhattisgarh , Odisha and Maharashtra have not proceeded after having called tenders . Besides these states some of the other states have also taken action to implement the new scheme . Haryana and Punjab has launched the High Security Registration Plates Scheme in the state . High Security Registration Plates have been made mandatory in for all new and old vehicles . Maharashtra announced that it had planned to implement new number plates soon . Gujarat , West Bengal , Assam , Madhya Pradesh and some other states have also started giving high security number plates for vehicles . Military vehicles ( edit ) A registration plate on an Indian Army truck at Mhow Indian Military vehicle 's ( NCC ) registration plate Military vehicles have a unique numbering system unlike any other licence numbers . The numbers are registered by the Ministry of Defence in New Delhi . The first ( or the third ) character is an upward - pointing arrow . This is known as a Broad Arrow , whose origins lie in the UK Office of Ordnance and is still used in many parts of the British Commonwealth on assorted army items , not just vehicles . The next two digits ( or the two succeeding the arrow ) signify the year in which the Military procured the vehicle . The next is the base code , followed by the serial number . The letter ending after the serial number indicates the class of the vehicle ( e.g. ↑ 10A266162W ) . Diplomatic plates ( edit ) Indian vehicle registration plate of a car belonging to diplomatic mission of The Netherlands ( code 52 ) Vehicle belonging to foreign missions bear the plates UN , CD or CC , which stand for United Nations , Diplomatic Corps or Consular Corps respectively . A diplomatic plate numbered 13 CC xxxx would refer to country 13 , probably a country close to the letter A or B. For example , a vehicle bearing the number 77 CD xxxx in India refers to a vehicle owned by either the United States mission in India or by a person working with the mission . Cars bearing UN , CD or CC licence plates are granted the level of diplomatic immunity or consular immunity corresponding to whom the vehicle has been attributed to by the Indian Ministry of External Affairs . Immunity is void if a UN , CD or CC licence - plated vehicle is driven by a chauffeur or non-diplomat in an absence of an accredited member of the diplomatic or consular corps . Table of codes ( applies to CC and CD only , incomplete ) : Number Country Afghanistan Algeria 6 Austria 7 Bangladesh 5 Australia 10 Brazil 11 United Kingdom 15 Canada 16 Chile 17 China 25 France 27 Germany 30 Kyrgyz 35 Iraq 42 South Korea 45 Lebanon 48 Mexico 52 Netherlands 67 Sweden 68 Switzerland 71 Thailand 72 Trinidad and Tobago 73 Turkey 75 Russia 77 United States 78 Uruguay 80 Vietnam 89 Pakistan 93 Belarus 95 South Africa 98 Uzbekistan 99 Kazakhstan 102 Iceland 104 Tunisia 109 Israel 112 Bosnia and Herzegovina 113 Suriname 125 Ecuador 128 Tajikistan 134 Botswana 134 Dominican Republic 137 Malta 145 Burundi 147 Georgia 153 Guinea 156 Estonia Other numbering ( edit ) Other numbering include the special numbers allotted to public transportation such as buses , taxis and auto - rickshaws . The numbers are registered by the organization which run the services and are usually printed on the side of the vehicle . This mechanism is used for unique identification . Temporary numbers ( edit ) As soon as a vehicle is purchased , the dealer of the vehicle issues a temporary licence sticker known colloquially as a TR ( To Register ) number . In Maharashtra ( TC test certificate no.is given ) . This is valid for one month , during which the owner must register the vehicle in the controlling RTO of the area in which the owner is residing to get a standard licence plate . Some states like Tamil Nadu do not allow vehicles with TR numbers on the road , the dealer will hand over the vehicle to the purchaser only after the registration process is done . To register a vehicle , it has to be presented to the RTO 's office , where a Motor Vehicle Inspector will verify the applicant 's address and other details , confirm that the engine and chassis numbers are identical to what is written in the application and issues a permanent registration certificate which is usually valid for 20 years . The permanent registration certificate is one of the four important documents a vehicle plying on the road should always have ; the others being a valid insurance certificate , a pollution under control ( PUC ) certificate and the driver 's licence . For public utility vehicles like buses , trucks , taxis and pick - up vans , there are a number of additional documents like a road - worthiness certificate and a transportation permit . History ( edit ) All plates between 1902 and 2009 , plates were owner provided ; since 2009 , plates are officially issued , however previous registrations are still valid . Before 1939 , only one letter with four numbers were issued ( e.g. N 7612 ) . From 1939 until 1947 , two letters and four numbers scheme were issued ( e.g. KA 9823 ) . From 1947 until to the late 1980s ( June 30 , 1989 ) , the Indian licence plate system followed the scheme : BMU 7711 Where B was the state code ( e.g. C for Karnataka since K was allotted to Kerala ) ; MU were letters of the specific RTO ; and 7711 was the unique licence plate number . Older vehicles still exhibit this legally valid numbering scheme . In Portuguese Goa , which was annexed by India in 1961 , the scheme was Ixx - 99 - 99 ( before 1937 I - 99999 ) , second letters and third letters reserved by district . When Madhya Pradesh was known as Central Province ( then using code C ) , all vehicle license plates began with : CPZ -- For All Government vehicles CPP -- Central Province Police CPX -- where `` X '' represented the district code ( for example , vehicles registered in Jabalpur had a registration plate starting with CPJ ) When renamed to Madhya Pradesh , then using code M : MPZ -- For all Government vehicles MPP -- Madhya Pradesh Police MPX -- where `` X '' represented the district ( for example , vehicles registered in Jabalpur had a registration plate starting with MPJ ) In the early 2000s , the number plate colouring scheme changed from white over black ( BMU 7711 ) to black over white ( BMU 7711 ) for private non-commercial vehicles , and from black over white ( BMU 7711 ) to black over yellow ( BMU 7711 ) for all other vehicles . The usage of the older colour scheme was made illegal after a period during which both styles were tolerated ... See also ( edit ) Portals Access related topics India portal Transport portal References ( edit ) Jump up ^ `` Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989 , Rule - 50 ( 2 ) ( d ) '' ( PDF ) . GOI . Government of India - Department of Road Transport & Highways. 1989 . p. 4 . Retrieved 2009 - 03 - 15 . Jump up ^ GHeather_UK ( cancellato ) ( 2007 - 06 - 09 ) . `` Idiot No. 3 at DEL Flickr -- Condivisione di foto ! '' . Flickr.com . Retrieved 2013 - 07 - 06 . Jump up ^ `` Number plates to sport OD '' . telegraphindia.com . Calcutta , India . 2012 - 07 - 19 . Retrieved 30 August 2012 . the vehicles will have OD instead of OR Jump up ^ `` Telangana begins vehicles registration with Prefix TS '' . IANS . news.biharprabha.com . Retrieved 18 June 2014 . Jump up ^ `` TS registration series rolls out in Telangana '' . The Hindu . Hyderabad. 19 June 2014 . Retrieved 24 June 2014 . Jump up ^ `` To Obtain Advance Registration Mark ( Fancy Registration Number ) '' . Transport Dept , Karnataka . Retrieved 2012 - 03 - 13 . ^ Jump up to : `` HIGH SECURITY REGISTRATION PLATES '' . Ministry of Road Transport and Highways . Retrieved 2010 - 06 - 29 . ^ Jump up to : `` MJ Antony : Number plate logjam '' . Sify Finance . 2010 - 06 - 09 . Retrieved 2010 - 06 - 29 . ^ Jump up to : `` Do n't buy high - security number plates , it 's illegal ' '' . Hindustan Times . 2010 - 06 - 20 . Retrieved 2010 - 06 - 29 . ^ Jump up to : `` Number plate scheme : SC notices to UP , Delhi , Haryana '' . Indian Express . 2011 - 04 - 08 . Retrieved 2011 - 04 - 11 . Jump up ^ High Security Registration Plates http://iharnews.com/index.php/government/274-high-security-registration-plates Jump up ^ Sen , Somit ( 2012 - 05 - 28 ) . `` High - tech number plates for 20 lakh vehicles soon '' . The Times Of India . Times of India . Retrieved 2012 - 07 - 20 . Jump up ^ http://www.worldlicenseplates.com/world/AS_INDI.html Jump up ^ `` MVDKerala - Registration Numbers '' . Keralamvd.gov.in . Retrieved 2013 - 07 - 06 . External links ( edit ) List of two - letter codes Government of Tamil Nadu - State Transport Authority Ministry of Road transport and Highways hide Transport in India Road Ministry of Road Transport and Highways National Highways Authority of India Expressways List of National Highways National Highways Development Project FASTag Bus rapid transit Motor Vehicles Act , 1988 Traffic collisions Rail Ministry of Railways Indian Railways High - speed rail Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Suburban rail Rapid transit Light rail Monorail Tram List of railway stations Rail accidents Air Ministry of Civil Aviation List of airports List of commercial airlines List of low cost airlines Water Ministry of Shipping Shipping Corporation of India Inland Waterways Authority of India List of National Waterways in India Ports Places States AP ( Eluru Vijayawada Visakhapatnam ) AR AS BR CT GA GJ HR HP JK JH KA ( Mangalore ) KL ( Kochi Kollam Thrissur Thiruvananthapuram ) MP MH ( Mumbai Nagpur Pune Thane ) MN ML MZ NL OR PB RJ SK TN ( Chennai Coimbatore Madurai Tiruchirappalli ) TG ( Hyderabad ) TR UP UT WB ( Darjeeling Kolkata ) Union Territories AN CH DN DD DL LD PY Miscellaneous Regional Transport Office ( RTO ) List of RTOs Licence plates Driving licence Road signs Speed limits hide Vehicle registration plates of Asia Sovereign states Afghanistan Armenia Azerbaijan Bahrain Bangladesh Bhutan Brunei Cambodia China Cyprus East Timor ( Timor - Leste ) Egypt Georgia India Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Japan Jordan Kazakhstan North Korea South Korea Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Lebanon Malaysia Maldives Mongolia Myanmar Nepal Oman Pakistan Philippines Qatar Russia Saudi Arabia Singapore Sri Lanka Syria Tajikistan Thailand Turkey Turkmenistan United Arab Emirates Uzbekistan Vietnam Yemen States with limited recognition Abkhazia Artsakh Northern Cyprus Palestine South Ossetia Taiwan Dependencies and other territories British Indian Ocean Territory Christmas Island Cocos ( Keeling ) Islands Hong Kong Macau