Tim Allen as Mike Baxter : Mike is a father of three daughters and the director of marketing for the Outdoor Man chain of sporting goods stores . He fervently supports traditional American values , is a Protestant , and is politically conservative . Mike loves his daughters but says his favorite is Eve , the youngest and most athletic daughter , and whose political opinions and interests mirror his own . He is proud of her ability to excel at anything she tries , including school work , hunting , and playing sports . Mike often finds himself annoyed with Outdoor Man 's young slow - witted employee Kyle , and with Ryan , his politically liberal son - in - law and the father of Mike 's grandson Boyd . The video blog or `` vlog '' that Mike does for Outdoor Man is frequently used as a vehicle to rant about his political views . Mike is a graduate of the University of Michigan , and an amateur radio operator using the call sign KA0XTT . Nancy Travis as Vanessa Baxter , Mike 's wife : Vanessa is a geologist working in the energy industry for a company that does hydraulic fracturing , or `` fracking '' . In season four , Vanessa becomes frustrated with her job and decides to become a high school science teacher . Vanessa was ambiguous in her political views until season five , when she announces she is supporting Hillary Clinton for president , mainly because she thinks it will advance women 's causes . She is also shown drinking wine frequently , and nearly as frequently mocked by Mike and her daughters about it . She is a graduate of Ohio State University . Vanessa has a tendency to put her foot in her mouth when around people of other races . Despite this , she and her African - American neighbor Carol Larabee seem to get along . Vanessa 's humor tends to include bad puns , which irritate Mike and the girls to no end . Amanda Fuller ( seasons 2 -- 6 ) and Alexandra Krosney ( season 1 ) as Kristin Beth Baxter , the oldest daughter : Kristin , unlike her father , espouses more liberal beliefs . During her senior year of high school , Kristin became pregnant with her son , Boyd . She was a single mother living in the Baxter home until moving out in the season two finale . She began to reconcile with Boyd 's father , Ryan , in season three , and the two get married between seasons four and five . Kristin worked at a diner until landing a job at an upscale restaurant run by a former co-worker at the end of season two . In season four , she becomes the manager of the new restaurant opened by Outdoor Man . Kristin tends to work extra hard in this new job to prove she did not get the position through nepotism , despite Mike and Ed frequently telling her she was qualified . Alexandra Krosney portrayed Kristin in the show 's first season ( despite being nearly two years younger than Molly Ephraim , playing Kristin 's younger sister ) ; Krosney was replaced by Amanda Fuller prior to season two for unspecified creative reasons . Molly Ephraim as Amanda Elaine `` Mandy '' Baxter - Anderson , the middle daughter : Mandy is nowhere near as intelligent as her sisters ( though her penchant for cutting class and ignoring homework might label her as voluntarily dumb ) , but excels in social situations . Interested in fashion ( and little else ) , she was one of the most popular girls at her high school . Mandy is very confident and creative , demonstrating traits found in her father . Unlike the rest of the family , she is lazy , conceited , selfish , insulting , and delinquent -- she drinks underage , ignores all driving laws , shoplifts from Outdoor Man , and has been caught staying out all night -- but occasionally displays moments of generosity and caring . She started dating Kyle in season 2 . As of season three , she is attending a local college and working at the diner where Kristin used to work . Later that same season , she begins an online clothing business , selling her self - designed fashions which she assembles in the basement of her parents ' house . Kyle asks her to marry him in season 5 , the 100th episode . She marries Kyle in season six , but they have yet to move out of the Baxter home . Up until she turned 21 , a running gag on the show was Mike , Vanessa , and occasionally Kristin snatching glasses of alcohol out of Mandy 's hand , usually followed by Mandy making a lame excuse . Kaitlyn Dever as Eve Baxter , the youngest daughter : Eve is an intelligent , athletic tomboy and generally has the same interests as Mike , including camping , sports , guns , and the military . She is Mike 's favorite daughter , and excels at her hobbies . She frequently outplays the boys in soccer and makes the boys ' football team as their placekicker . She is well aware of being the favorite over her two sisters . Eve has also inherited her father 's sense of humor , and her trademark sarcastic wit is frequently directed at clueless sister Mandy . Eve is an excellent student , whose only weak subject is art , though she did have to change math classes to escape a prejudiced teacher . Eve is a member of Army Junior ROTC and works toward gaining admittance to West Point . Her attempt to do so is unsuccessful , which seriously depresses her , so in season six , Eve decides to take a `` personal year '' rather than immediately attend college . She spends some of this time singing and playing guitar for money , but this proves to be unfruitful . During her gap year , Eve applies to the Air Force Academy in nearby Colorado Springs , and is accepted . Christoph Sanders as Kyle Anderson , a young employee at Outdoor Man : Kyle is universally recognized as a good guy . Kyle idolizes Mike , having grown up without a father figure . Kyle takes care of his grandmother who has dementia , and it is implied he grew up in her home . Kyle is often oblivious to social cues and is slow to catch on to the events happening around him . Kyle dated Kristin in season one and started dating Mandy in season two before proposing in season five , and marrying Mandy in season six . Héctor Elizondo as Edward `` Ed '' Alzate , Mike 's longtime boss : Ed started a bait and tackle shop many years ago and hired Mike , who helped turn the shop into the 20 - store Outdoor Man chain . Ed is perhaps fifteen years older than Mike , but the two men bond over similar outdoor hobbies and shared conservative values . Mike regularly talks to Ed about the happenings in his home and occasionally seeks advice . Having been divorced four times , Ed 's suggestions are rarely helpful . Ed is a Vietnam veteran , although he saw no combat in Vietnam , stating that he was a clerk in Saigon . He continues to help fellow veterans at the local Veterans of Foreign Wars hall with their Veteran Affairs paperwork . Ed is also a recurring target for jokes about his age and lack of hair , most often from Mike . It is revealed in season 6 that Ed has early onset dementia . Flynn Morrison ( regular , seasons 2 -- 6 ) and Evan and Luke Kruntchev ( recurring , season 1 ) as Boyd Baxter , Kristin 's son : Mike enjoys spending quality time with his grandson Boyd , and affectionately views him as the son he never had . Mike and Ryan often clash on how he should be raised . Boyd enjoys activities encouraged by both his father and grandfather . Jordan Masterson ( regular , seasons 2 -- 6 ) and Nick Jonas ( guest star , season 1 ) as Ryan Vogelson , Boyd 's Canadian father : Though Ryan initially fled when Kristin got pregnant , he returned to be involved in Boyd 's upbringing , and eventually the two reconciled and got engaged ( at the end of season 3 ) . Ryan holds liberal views , both politically and philosophically , and he and Mike routinely clash over their fundamentally opposing values , especially when it comes to child - rearing . Ryan wishes to raise his son without religion and patriotism , but neither Mike nor Kristin agree with this . His vegan diet , views on discipline , and what Mike sees as his oversensitivity are an affront to Mike 's beliefs , but Ryan generally enjoys being a thorn in Mike 's side . On rare occasions , Ryan and Mike agree on what is best for Boyd , but this usually puts them at odds with Kristin and / or Vanessa . Jonathan Adams as Chuck Larabee ( regular , seasons 4 -- 6 ; recurring , seasons 2 -- 3 ) , Mike and Vanessa 's neighbor : Chuck is a retired U.S. Marine and a veteran of the first Gulf War who runs a private security business and later takes charge of security for the Denver Outdoor Man . Chuck is an African - American , and often jokes with Mike about racial stereotypes , and they regularly exchange barbs as if they do n't like each other . In reality , they are good friends , despite being unwilling to admit it . Vanessa sees through their heated exchanges , often telling them to `` get a room '' . Chuck is married to Carol ( but the two do not always agree politically ) and they have a son , Brandon , who is the same age as Eve .