No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) A Dark Knight 67 `` Pax Penguina '' Danny Cannon John Stephens September 21 , 2017 ( 2017 - 09 - 21 ) T40. 10001 3.21 In the aftermath of the Tetch virus incident , Penguin has regained control of Gotham 's underworld and begun issuing `` Licenses of Misconduct ; '' every criminal who possesses one can commit a `` legal crime , '' though not approved by Gordon and Bruce . Selina and a reluctant Tabitha agree to a license . A group of unlicensed criminals led by Merton and Grady Harris decide to defeat Penguin , releasing Jonathan Crane from Arkham to help them produce his father 's fear toxin . Knowing that Gordon can not help , Bruce decides to fight the licenses himself . The night Penguin opens the Iceberg Lounge , the Harrises are captured before they can attack the party but , when Penguin decides to execute them , Ivy turns on him and cuts the power . Merton uses the fear toxin on Penguin before being arrested by Gordon . The toxin makes Penguin see an escaped Nygma . Bruce steals the list of licensed criminals , but is then found on the scene of a robbery by the GCPD . Grady , who escaped from the party , returns to Crane 's house , but discovers Jonathan has adopted a new persona , calling himself `` The Scarecrow '' and spraying Grady with fear gas . 68 `` The Fear Reaper '' Louis Shaw Milito Danny Cannon September 28 , 2017 ( 2017 - 09 - 28 ) T40. 10002 2.87 Gordon frees Bruce . Penguin gives the former 24 hours to apprehend Crane in order to prove the GCPD is still efficient . With no support from the other cops , even Bullock , Gordon walks into Arkham and fights off dozens of inmates influenced by the fear toxin and eventually gets dosed himself . He walks into a hallucination and sees a dying Lee , but successfully overcomes his fear and uses water to nullify the inmates ' reaction to the toxin , forcing Crane to run . Penguin mocks the GCPD and offers the policemen a spot on his payroll . Gordon decides to seek Falcone 's help to defeat Penguin . Meanwhile , Selina and Tabitha meet with a presumably demised Barbara , who asks them to join her arms business , onto which Penguin later forces a license . After being convinced of Barbara 's sincerity , Tabitha and Selina decide to join . Ivy robs a potion store and drinks a combination of them , turning feral . After Bruce almost gets killed during his vigilantism , Fox , who seems to be aware of his activities , provides him with a `` Prototype Suit , '' making him faster and more resilient . 69 `` They Who Hide Behind Masks '' Mark Tonderai Steven Lilien & Bryan Wynbrandt October 5 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 05 ) T40. 10003 2.92 In Arabia , AD 125 , a deceased warrior is taken from the battlefield and placed into a healing pool known as the Lazarus Pit ; once revived , the future Ra 's is tasked by his master to find his future heir and given a ceremonial knife . In modern - day Gotham , the knife is sold at auction by Penguin ; Bruce , playing a wealthy spoiled brat , outbids Barbara for it . She is revealed to have been revived by Ra 's and tasked with retrieving the knife . She sends Selina to convince Bruce to yield it , but to no avail . Barbara seduces Ra 's . Jim visits Carmine , who declines his request , revealing his imminent demise . His daughter Sofia , however , comes to Gotham to help Gordon after they share a kiss . Ed is stolen from the Lounge by one of Penguin 's employees , Myrtle Jenkins , who was a former classmate of Ed 's and is a current follower . Ed finds that his brain has suffered , such that he is not able to answer even children 's riddles . Penguin has Myrtle killed to make an example and Ed wanders around the city , angry to learn that Penguin is in control again . 70 `` The Demon 's Head '' Kenneth Fink Ben McKenzie October 12 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 12 ) T40. 10004 2.75 Bruce has antiquist Niles Winthrop and his grandson , Alex , study the knife . Ra 's later shows up and kills Niles , forcing Alex to escape with the knife . Bruce tells Jim about the knife . They find Alex and are attacked by Ra 's ' psychotic enforcers . Bruce and Alex escape the scene . Ra 's visits the GCPD as a Nanda Parbat official before Alfred arrives and tells Jim about the previous activities of Ra 's , who escapes . Alex and Bruce return to Niles ' museum , where the former has hidden the knife . After recovering it , the enforcers attack them just as Jim arrives and kills one while luring the other away . Ra 's holds Alex hostage , demanding the knife , which Bruce deems too important . An impressed Ra 's kills Alex and is arrested , implied to be part of his scheme . Meanwhile , Cobblepot threatens Sofia against contemplating a takeover . He uses her to trap and execute Falcone loyalists , completely trusting Sofia , who tells Jim that it was all part of her plan . Ed spends hours to make petty riddles to defy Cobblepot , who convinces Ed that he is no longer the Riddler , sparing Ed 's life for more humiliation . 71 5 `` The Blade 's Path '' Scott White Tze Chun October 19 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 19 ) T40. 10005 2.75 Following Alex 's funeral and learning that Ra 's has applied for diplomatic immunity , Bruce takes the knife and vows to kill him at Blackgate . Ra 's says goodbye to Barbara after giving her an unknown mystical power . Upon arriving , Bruce is ambushed by Ra 's and the League posed as COs . When Alfred reports him missing to Gordon , they arrive at Blackgate and subdue the League . Ra 's states that he is cursed to an eternity and provokes Bruce into killing him , breaking the curse and rendering him a decayed corpse . Bruce suspends his vigilantism and Alfred keeps the suit until he can move on . Meanwhile , Butch 's body is dumped in waters owned by Indian Hill . He is revived with no memory , primitive language , pale skin , and superhuman strength , assuming the name `` Solomon Grundy . '' He encounters and befriends Nygma , who takes him to a wrestling ring where Lee is working as the medic . Sofia attempts to level with Cobblepot and the two begin bonding . 72 6 `` Hog Day Afternoon '' Mark Tonderai Kim Newton October 26 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 26 ) T40. 10006 2.87 A man wearing a pig 's head begins killing police officers acting as Cobblepot 's bagmen . Deducing that the killer intends to fight corruption , Gordon and Bullock find the last target , but are too late to prevent his death , leading to the duo 's capture . Gordon frees himself before the killer cuts Bullock 's throat to facilitate his escape . Gordon tells Bullock that he knows the latter has also been on Cobblepot 's payroll , demanding him to cease it . `` Professor Pyg '' is revealed to have larger - scale plans . Meanwhile , Cobblepot suspects Sofia 's intentions and confronts her , but is deceived again when he learns that she has been constructing an orphanage . Nygma begins making money using Gilzean , trying to hire Thompkins to restore his genius . After running out of medicine in her private clinic , she accepts Nygma 's offer . 73 7 `` A Day in the Narrows '' John Behring Peter Blake November 2 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 02 ) T40. 10007 2.75 Pyg kidnaps three officers . Cobblepot and his temporary enforcer Headhunter ally with the GCPD to take down Pyg , disapproved by Gordon and Sofia , who warns Cobblepot of the bad publicity should the alliance fail . They find one officer murdered , and the second one , Fisoli , critically wounded . While Fisoli is taken away in an ambulance , the alliance traps Pyg in an abandoned courthouse with the third officer , Patel . However , it is a trap and Bullock shoots Patel . Gordon saves them alone , reclaiming the GCPD 's publicity and ruining Cobblepot 's . Penguin stabs Headhunter in rage , while Fisoli , revealed to be Pyg in disguise , escapes to enact further plans . The GCPD stops recognizing the License . Meanwhile , during a fundraiser , Bruce is met by Grace Blomdahl , his former classmate . He is also re-introduced to a now friendly Tommy Elliot and Brant , who acts arrogantly against Bruce . As vengeance , Bruce excludes Brant while he parties at a nightclub he purchases , and develops a romance with Blomdahl . In order to make amends with Barbara , Selina and Tabitha steal from a biker 's club , accepted by the former . 74 8 `` Stop Hitting Yourself '' Rob Bailey Charlie Huston November 9 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 09 ) T40. 10008 2.70 Barbara , Selina and Tabitha are dispatched by Cobblepot to kidnap Nygma , after learning of his popularity and mocking Cobblepot in the Narrows . Cobblepot also dispatches Bridgit to kill them in case they fail . Arriving , Barbara is distracted by Lee and Tabitha recognizes Gilzean . After Tabitha defeats Gilzean , who begins remembering , in a fight for Nygma , Bridgit arrives , but Lee incapacitates her ; she also becomes the new leader of the fights after Cherry is killed by Barbara . Meanwhile , Gordon is offered a promotion to be the new Captain of Gotham Central , arranged by Sofia . Although initially hesitant , he takes the position when Bullock 's bitterness leads to him missing out on a police officers ceremony . Cobblepot takes advantage of a mentally unstable orphan named Martin , and psychologically manipulates him to use his inner and outer demons . Gordon ends his partnership with Sofia . 75 9 `` Let Them Eat Pie '' Nathan Hope Iturri Sosa November 16 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 16 ) T40. 10009 2.62 In a plot to launch an attack on Sofia 's orphanage , Pyg kills several homeless people and cooks their insides , stuffing them into pies . His base of operations is exposed by the GCPD , prompting Pyg to kidnap Harper , using her as leverage against Captain Gordon . When a dinner at the orphanage rounds up several of the rich and powerful , including Cobblepot , Pyg launches his plan into motion , torturing the rich into cannibalism by way of eating the pies . Gordon is subdued while trying to find Pyg and with Harper 's help , he defeats Pyg in combat and arrests him : Cobblepot 's friendship with Sofia is ruined when Martin , acting as an insider for Cobblepot tells him of her interactions with Gordon , confirming his suspicions . Bruce , now bitter after not feeling satisfaction in avenging his parents ' death via the death of Ra 's al Ghul , he continues his partying ways after abandoning Alfred on a nature walk , and strains his relationship with him . 76 10 `` Things That Go Boom '' Louis Shaw Milito Steven Lilien & Bryan Wynbrandt November 30 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 30 ) T40. 10010 2.59 Gordon visits the Pyg in Arkham Asylum , after Fox has realized that the Pyg has undergone numerous facial surgeries . Fox learns that he was a serial killer named Lazlo Valentin . The Pyg later breaks out of Arkham . Thompkins and Nygma are conflicted with a rival mobster , Sampson in the Narrows , who challenges her leadership . After Sampson ransacks Thompkins ' clinic , she poisons his drink , and offers an antidote on the condition that he resigns from power in the Narrows . Thompkins also learns that Nygma 's side effects from being frozen have been worn off -- Nygma begins having hallucinations of his dual personality , as the Riddler . Cobblepot confronts Sofia , and has her tortured by the Dentist , one of Cobblepot 's assets . However , as part of an intricate plan , Sofia flees but is kidnapped by Barbara , Tabitha and Selina . The four make an alliance and after Zsasz explodes Barbara 's safehouse , they use Martin as leverage against Cobblepot , while Gordon learns of Sofia 's intentions to use the GCPD against Cobblepot via Gordon 's promotion . The two factions meet under a bridge , and Cobblepot fakes Martin 's death in a car bombing to force Sofia to retreat , declaring war . 77 11 `` Queen Takes Knight '' Danny Cannon John Stephens December 7 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 07 ) T40. 10011 2.53 While Nygma is being haunted by his alternate Riddler persona , Grundy is kidnapped by Tabitha and is repeatedly hit over the head in an attempt to have him remember her . She ultimately gives up , but Grundy soon awakens , regaining higher speech and remembering his past life as Butch Gilzean . Bruce 's arrogance prompts Alfred to fight him in hand - to - hand combat after threatening to send him away . A conceited Bruce fires Alfred from service in Wayne Manor , and forces him to resign as his legal guardian . Pyg becomes involved in a conspiracy with Sofia to assassinate her father Carmine and blame Cobblepot for the hit . After Carmine 's funeral , Sofia manipulates Gordon into arresting Cobblepot for the supposed murder of Martin , and Zsasz , revealed also to be working for Sofia sells him out to the GCPD . Sofia reveals her true motive to not take over Gotham , but to allow Gordon to live with the guilt for killing her brother Mario , also killing Pyg in the process . Bullock resigns from the GCPD , handing away his gun and badge . Cobblepot , now mentally unstable and sentenced to Arkham , meets Jerome Valeska . 78 12 `` Pieces of a Broken Mirror '' Hanelle M. Culpepper Danny Cannon March 1 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 01 ) T40. 10012 2.57 Nygma 's dual personality as the Riddler takes control of him , and with his intentions to overthrow Lee as the head of the Narrows , he hires Griffin Krank to assassinate her while she is giving out a speech to bring about a united Narrows . However , the assassination attempt fails , inciting a bombing instead . At the time of the bombing , several punks encounter a mutated , adult version of Ivy , who has been affected by a culmination of drugs and toxins . Alfred and Detective Gordon help rescue those in the bombing ; Alfred is hailed as a hero at a local diner , while Gordon goes to pursue Krank . When Ivy enters the newly rebuilt Sirens nightclub , she reveals her powers to Selina Kyle , and the two make an alliance . Alfred learns that Tiffany , a waitress from the diner has been killed by her abusive boyfriend , Rooney . Although Alfred is framed for the murder , he tracks down Rooney and alongside Bullock , who is now working as a bartender , they have Rooney arrested . When Krank attacks Lee again , Nygma confronts him , not knowing that his Riddler persona hired him before . Gordon , who was led to Krank by Barbara earlier arrives and shoots Krank dead just as he reveals the Riddler 's involvement ; Nygma lies to Gordon , keeping his involvement a secret . 79 13 `` A Beautiful Darkness '' John Stephens Tze Chun March 8 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 08 ) T40. 10013 2.41 Ivy begins to investigate `` Project M '' , which is being conducted at Wayne Enterprises and involves the experimentation and deaths of several plants , much to her anger . After she murders a Wayne Enterprises employee , a horrified Selina abandons her . Ivy then visits Bruce and poisons him , causing him to hallucinate his closest friends and allies along with a mysterious cloaked figure . Simultaneously , Ivy hypnotizes Lucius and forces him to take her to the laboratory where Project M is being conducted and she collects a sample of the Lazarus water that is being used in the experiments before escaping . Gordon tracks them down and rescues Lucius before collecting the antidote and rescuing Bruce , who believes that he has seen his future . Ivy also uses the Lazarus water to create a new flower that can immediately kill someone upon contact with the petals . Meanwhile , Jerome pesters Oswald in Arkham and he subjects him to numerous humiliating tasks in order to turn him insane and upon learning that Jerome is intending on escaping and wreaking havoc in Gotham , Oswald decides to use that to escape . 80 14 `` Reunion '' Annabelle K. Frost Peter Blake March 15 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 15 ) T40. 10014 2.55 Nygma begins to contemplate suicide in order to kill his dual personality but opts to return to Arkham instead . However , Oswald reappears and he reveals to him that he had specifically written the letter so that his dual personality would read it and take Nygma back to Arkham . Meanwhile , Ivy begins to exact her revenge on those who have hurt her , beginning with Bullock for the death of her father years ago . Gordon takes Bullock to the GCPD and learns that Ivy is intending on attacking the annual Wayne Foundation dinner . Bruce attempts to convince Alfred to return but the latter turns him down ; he later attends the dinner as Bruce attempts to reach out to him but is unsuccessful . However , Ivy attacks the dinner and kills several people as the GCPD arrive . Bruce dresses in vigilante attire and he rescues the few remaining people there and Alfred decides to return to Wayne Manor . Following this , Selina destroys the Lazarus water to prevent Ivy from making more plants . Simultaneously , Sofia forcibly takes control of the Narrows and has Lee thrown into the streets , leading to Gordon turning to Bullock for help and deciding to take Sofia down . 81 15 `` The Sinking Ship The Grand Applause '' Nick Copus Seth Boston March 22 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 22 ) T40. 10015 2.47 Working with Oswald again , Nygma rescues Martin and he delivers him to safety while Oswald escapes from Arkham . Together , they attempt to convince Lee to help them but Nygma is captured by Grundy and returned to the Sirens , who take him to Sofia . However , Oswald successfully breaks into Sofia 's mansion and follows Nygma to the pier and rescues him . Simultaneously , Sofia attempts to kill Oswald but Gordon and Bullock work together to protect him before surviving an attack from her , which leads to Lee shooting Sofia in the head , putting her into a coma . Gordon plans on confessing to the GCPD but Bullock forces him to live with the guilt instead . Meanwhile , Bruce and Selina reconcile with one another and Barbara becomes affected by Ra 's al Ghul 's powers . 82 16 `` One of My Three Soups '' Ben McKenzie Charlie Huston March 29 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 29 ) T40. 10016 2.39 Jervis Tetch breaks himself , Jerome , Scarecrow and eighty other inmates out of Arkham , before hypnotising hundreds of Gotham citizens to stand on rooftops to force Gordon into an impossible situation . Though Tetch programs his victims to jump if they are told not to , Gordon finds a loophole and tricks the hypnotised people into saving each other , while apprehending Tetch . Bruce , blaming himself for not killing Jerome in their previous encounter , tracks him down with Selina 's help , as Jerome tracks down his abusive uncle . Jerome 's uncle tries to kill him but Bruce intervenes , and in the ensuing encounter , he chooses to spare Jerome again . Jerome kills his uncle after learning the location of someone he is searching for , and he and Scarecrow later rescue Tetch and head to ' St. Ignatius ' , pursued by Bruce , who alerts Gordon . Elsewhere Barbara , forcing herself to remember the events surrounding her resurrection , learns that Ra 's al Ghul revived her so she could replace him as the Demon 's Head , and she usurps leadership of the League of Shadows with help from the organisation 's female members , who kill their male comrades to protect her . 83 17 `` Mandatory Brunch Meeting '' Maja Vrvilo Steven Lilien & Bryan Wynbrandt April 5 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 05 ) T40. 10017 2.53 Thompkins challenges Nygma to his game , the Riddle Factory , and wagers to abolish it if she wins . After she outsmarts Nygma , the two share a kiss . Jerome Valeska assembles the `` Legion of Horribles '' -- Penguin , Mad Hatter , Scarecrow , Firefly and Mr. Freeze -- and sets out to find Wayne Enterprises associate Xander Wilde . Valeska shoots up a Wayne Enterprises building , but to no avail does he find Wilde , and is forced to escape when the GCPD arrive . With help from Bruce , Gordon and Bullock locate Wilde , who reveals that he is Jerome 's twin brother , Jeremiah , and also reveals that he has kidnapped Jerome . Mad Hatter and Scarecrow break out Jerome from Jeremiah 's custody , but are chased off by Gordon and Bullock . Cobblepot convinces Grundy to be hired muscle for the Legion of Horribles , just as Scarecrow concocts a laughing gas for Jerome to spread across the city . 84 18 `` That 's Entertainment '' Nick Copus Danny Cannon April 12 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 12 ) T40. 10018 2.37 Jerome holds the interim mayor and other powerful Gothamites hostage at a music festival and orders Gordon to bring him Bruce and Jeremiah , buying time for the other Legion members to load the laughing gas onto a blimp and release it upon the festival crowd . The GCPD takes out Jerome 's men and saves the mayor , while Cobblepot betrays the Legion by subduing the pilot and steering the blimp away from civilians . Gordon pursues Jerome , who declares that he will live on and willingly falls to his death from a rooftop . Barbara learns more of her alleged destiny as the League of Shadows ' leader , but Tabitha believes she is delusional ; Barbara severs ties with Tabitha , who is then taken by another League faction still loyal to Ra 's al Ghul . Tricked into opening a `` gift '' left by Jerome , Jeremiah is exposed to a modified version of the laughing gas that drives him insane . 85 19 `` To Our Deaths and Beyond '' Scott White Peter Blake & Iturri Sosa April 19 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 19 ) T40. 10019 2.18 Nygma robs several banks to distribute wealth to the Narrows , but Cobblepot tells him Lee is using him as a pawn . Nygma agrees to bring Cobblepot and Grundy along on his next robbery and kill Lee , but betrays them and plans to make Lee fall in love with him ; the GCPD arrives , but Lee gives herself up and allows Nygma to escape . With Tabitha 's help , the renegade League faction uses Bruce 's blood to resurrect Ra 's al Ghul , who disdains Barbara 's limited ambitions and tries to take back the power of the Demon 's Head . Barbara fights Ra 's , but returns the power to him when he threatens Tabitha 's life . Barbara reconciles with Tabitha , while the female League members recognize her worth as a leader and continue to serve her . After a vision of a cataclysmic event that will soon devastate the city , Ra 's resolves to remain alive and use the coming disaster to shape Bruce into a `` dark knight of Gotham . '' 86 20 `` That Old Corpse '' TBA TBA May 3 , 2018 ( 2018 - 05 - 03 ) TBA TBD 87 21 `` One Bad Day '' TBA TBA May 10 , 2018 ( 2018 - 05 - 10 ) TBA TBD 88 22 `` No Man 's Land '' TBA TBA May 17 , 2018 ( 2018 - 05 - 17 ) TBA TBD