Glucose is present in the CSF ; the level is usually about 60 % that in the peripheral circulation . A fingerstick or venipuncture at the time of lumbar puncture may therefore be performed to assess peripheral glucose levels and determine a predicted CSF glucose value . Decreased glucose levels can indicate fungal , tuberculous or pyogenic infections ; lymphomas ; leukemia spreading to the meninges ; meningoencephalitic mumps ; or hypoglycemia . A glucose level of less than one third of blood glucose levels in association with low CSF lactate levels is typical in hereditary CSF glucose transporter deficiency also known as De Vivo disease . Increased glucose levels in the fluid can indicate diabetes , although the 60 % rule still applies . Increased levels of glutamine are often involved with hepatic encephalopathies , Reye 's syndrome , hepatic coma , cirrhosis , hypercapnia and depression . Increased levels of lactate can occur the presence of cancer of the CNS , multiple sclerosis , heritable mitochondrial disease , low blood pressure , low serum phosphorus , respiratory alkalosis , idiopathic seizures , traumatic brain injury , cerebral ischemia , brain abscess , hydrocephalus , hypocapnia or bacterial meningitis . The enzyme lactate dehydrogenase can be measured to help distinguish meningitides of bacterial origin , which are often associated with high levels of the enzyme , from those of viral origin in which the enzyme is low or absent . Changes in total protein content of cerebrospinal fluid can result from pathologically increased permeability of the blood - cerebrospinal fluid barrier , obstructions of CSF circulation , meningitis , neurosyphilis , brain abscesses , subarachnoid hemorrhage , polio , collagen disease or Guillain -- Barré syndrome , leakage of CSF , increases in intracranial pressure or hyperthyroidism . Very high levels of protein may indicate tuberculous meningitis or spinal block . IgG synthetic rate is calculated from measured IgG and total protein levels ; it is elevated in immune disorders such as multiple sclerosis , transverse myelitis , and neuromyelitis optica of Devic . Oligoclonal bands may be detected in CSF but not in serum , suggesting intrathecal antibody production .