Laconia massacre : US aircraft attacking Germans rescuing the sinking British troopship in the Atlantic Ocean . For example , the pilots of a United States Army Air Forces ( USAAF ) B - 24 Liberator bomber , despite knowing the U-boat's location , intentions , and the presence of British seamen , killed dozens of Laconia ' s survivors with bombs and strafing attacks , forcing U-156 to cast their remaining survivors into the sea and crash dive to avoid being destroyed . Unrestricted submarine warfare . Fleet Admiral Nimitz , the wartime commander - in - chief of the U.S. Pacific Fleet , provided unapologetic written testimony on Dönitz 's behalf at his trial that the U.S. Navy had waged unrestricted submarine warfare in the Pacific from the very first day the U.S. entered the war . Canicattì massacre : killing of Italian civilians by Lieutenant Colonel McCaffrey . A confidential inquiry was made , but McCaffrey was never charged with an offense relating to the incident . He died in 1954 . This incident remained virtually unknown until Joseph S. Salemi of New York University , whose father witnessed it , publicized it . In the Biscari massacre , which consists of two instances of mass murders , US troops of the 45th Infantry Division killed roughly 75 prisoners of war , mostly Italian . Operation Teardrop : Eight of the surviving , captured crewmen from the sunken German submarine U-546 were tortured by US military personnel . Historian Philip K. Lundeberg has written that the beating and torture of U-546's survivors was a singular atrocity motivated by the interrogators ' desire to quickly get information on what the U.S. believed were potential cruise missile or ballistic missile attacks on the continental US by German submarines . The Dachau liberation reprisals : Upon the liberation of Dachau concentration camp , about a dozen guards in the camp were shot by a machine gunner who was guarding them . Other soldiers of the 3rd Battalion , 157th Infantry Regiment , of the US 45th ( Thunderbird ) Division killed other guards who resisted . In all , about 30 were killed , according to the commanding officer Felix L. Sparks . Later , Colonel Howard Buechner wrote that more than 500 were killed . Near the French village of Audouville - la - Hubert , 30 German Wehrmacht prisoners ( probably German Army soldiers ) were killed by U.S. paratroopers . In the aftermath of the Malmedy massacre , a written order from the HQ of the 328th US Army Infantry Regiment , dated 21 December 1944 , stated : No SS troops or paratroopers will be taken prisoner but will be shot on sight . Major - General Raymond Hufft ( US Army ) gave instructions to his troops not to take prisoners when they crossed the Rhine in 1945 . `` After the war , when he reflected on the war crimes he authorized , he admitted , ' if the Germans had won , I would have been on trial at Nuremberg instead of them . ' '' Stephen Ambrose related : `` I 've interviewed well over 1000 combat veterans . Only one of them said he shot a prisoner ... Perhaps as many as one - third of the veterans ... however , related incidents in which they saw other GIs shooting unarmed German prisoners who had their hands up . '' Secret wartime files made public only in 2006 reveal that American GIs committed 400 sexual offenses in Europe , including 126 rapes in England , between 1942 and 1945 . A study by Robert J. Lilly estimates that a total of 14,000 civilian women in England , France and Germany were raped by American GIs during World War II . It is estimated that there were around 3,500 rapes by American servicemen in France between June 1944 and the end of the war and one historian has claimed that sexual violence against women in liberated France was common . On April 22 , 1945 American soldiers killed several Waffen SS soldiers who had been taken prisoners of war in the German town of Lippach . Members of the same unit are also alleged to have raped 20 women in the town .