The red kangaroo ( Macropus rufus ) is the largest surviving marsupial anywhere in the world . It occupies the arid and semi-arid centre of the country . The highest population densities of the red kangaroo occur in the rangelands of western New South Wales . Red kangaroos are commonly mistaken as the most abundant species of kangaroo , but eastern greys actually have a larger population . A large male can be 2 metres ( 6 ft 7 in ) tall and weigh 90 kg ( 200 lb ) . The eastern grey kangaroo ( Macropus giganteus ) is less well - known than the red ( outside Australia ) , but the most often seen , as its range covers the fertile eastern part of the country . The range of the eastern grey kangaroo extends from the top of the Cape York Peninsula in north Queensland down to Victoria , as well as areas of south - eastern Australia and Tasmania . Population densities of eastern grey kangaroos usually peak near 100 per km in suitable habitats of open woodlands . Populations are more limited in areas of land clearance , such as farmland , where forest and woodland habitats are limited in size or abundance . The western grey kangaroo ( Macropus fuliginosus ) is slightly smaller again at about 54 kg ( 119 lb ) for a large male . It is found in the southern part of Western Australia , South Australia near the coast , and the Darling River basin . The highest population densities occur in the western Riverina district of New South Wales and in western areas of the Nullarbor Plain in Western Australia . Populations may have declined , particularly in agricultural areas . The species has a high tolerance to the plant toxin sodium fluoroacetate , which indicates a possible origin from the south - west region of Australia . The antilopine kangaroo ( Macropus antilopinus ) is , essentially , the far - northern equivalent of the eastern and western grey kangaroos . It is sometimes referred to as the antilopine wallaroo , but in behaviour and habitat it is more similar to red and grey kangaroos . Like them , it is a creature of the grassy plains and woodlands , and gregarious . Its name comes from its fur , which is similar in colour and texture to that of antelopes . Characteristically , the noses of males swell behind the nostrils . This enlarges nasal passages and allows them to release more heat in hot and humid climates .