Symmetry axis : an axis around which a rotation by 360 ∘ n ( \ displaystyle ( \ tfrac ( 360 ^ ( \ circ ) ) ( n ) ) ) results in a molecule indistinguishable from the original . This is also called an n-fold rotational axis and abbreviated C. Examples are the C axis in water and the C axis in ammonia . A molecule can have more than one symmetry axis ; the one with the highest n is called the principal axis , and by convention is aligned with the z - axis in a Cartesian coordinate system . Plane of symmetry : a plane of reflection through which an identical copy of the original molecule is generated . This is also called a mirror plane and abbreviated σ . Water has two of them : one in the plane of the molecule itself and one perpendicular to it . A symmetry plane parallel with the principal axis is dubbed vertical ( σ ) and one perpendicular to it horizontal ( σ ) . A third type of symmetry plane exists : If a vertical symmetry plane additionally bisects the angle between two 2-fold rotation axes perpendicular to the principal axis , the plane is dubbed dihedral ( σ ) . A symmetry plane can also be identified by its Cartesian orientation , e.g. , ( xz ) or ( yz ) . Center of symmetry or inversion center , abbreviated i . A molecule has a center of symmetry when , for any atom in the molecule , an identical atom exists diametrically opposite this center an equal distance from it . In other words , a molecule has a center of symmetry when the points ( x , y , z ) and ( - x , - y , - z ) correspond to identical objects . For example , if there is an oxygen atom in some point ( x , y , z ) , then there is an oxygen atom in the point ( - x , - y , - z ) . There may or may not be an atom at the inversion center itself . Examples are xenon tetrafluoride where the inversion center is at the Xe atom , and benzene ( C H ) where the inversion center is at the center of the ring . Rotation - reflection axis : an axis around which a rotation by 360 ∘ n ( \ displaystyle ( \ tfrac ( 360 ^ ( \ circ ) ) ( n ) ) ) , followed by a reflection in a plane perpendicular to it , leaves the molecule unchanged . Also called an n-fold improper rotation axis , it is abbreviated S. Examples are present in tetrahedral silicon tetrafluoride , with three S axes , and the staggered conformation of ethane with one S axis . Identity , abbreviated to E , from the German ' Einheit ' meaning unity . This symmetry element simply consists of no change : every molecule has this element . While this element seems physically trivial , it must be included in the list of symmetry elements so that they form a mathematical group , whose definition requires inclusion of the identity element . It is so called because it is analogous to multiplying by one ( unity ) . In other words , E is a property that any object needs to have regardless of its symmetry properties .