Triple - A : The American Association was revived as a Triple - A league in 1969 and flourished with the minor league baseball boom of the 1980s and 1990s . However , all of its teams were again absorbed into the International and Pacific Coast leagues in 1998 as part of a sweeping reorganization of the minors ' top classification . The American Association and the International League also played an interlocking schedule during the late 1980s as part of the Triple - A Alliance . The Mexican League was upgraded from Double - A to Triple - A in 1967 . Double - A : In 1964 , the South Atlantic League changed its name to its current identity , the Southern League . Because of continued contraction ( and Major League expansion ) that left each circuit with only seven teams , the Texas and Southern leagues merged into the 14 - team Dixie Association in 1971 . The arrangement lasted only for that season and the records and history of the Texas and Southern loops were kept distinct . In 1972 , each league added an eighth team , rebalancing their schedules . They resumed their former , separate identities , and returned to prosperity with the revival of minor league baseball that began in the 1980s . Class A : In 1965 , the Class A Short Season designation was created , and the Northern and Northwest loops moved from `` full season '' Class A into the new classification ( with the New York -- Penn League following in 1967 ) . Over time , the California , Carolina and Florida State leagues became known within baseball as Class A-Advanced leagues , one rung below Double - A , splitting the Class A level even further . The Georgia -- Florida League disbanded after the 1963 season , while the Northern League played its last year in official minor league baseball in 1971 . In 1980 , the Western Carolinas League changed its identity to become the modern incarnation of the South Atlantic League . Rookie : In 1964 , the Pioneer League stepped down from Class A to Rookie league status , and the first `` complex - based '' leagues , the Sarasota Rookie League and the Cocoa Rookie League , made their debuts . The Sarasota Rookie League underwent a name change to the Florida Rookie League in 1965 before becoming the modern Gulf Coast League the next season . The Cocoa Rookie League lasted only one season , and the Florida East Coast League of 1972 , based in the same region of the state , also existed for only one year . In 1989 , a counterpart to the Gulf Coast League , the Arizona League , made its debut and it continues to operate as a Rookie - level league for MLB teams with spring training facilities based in Arizona . Failed start - up leagues : During the 1970s , three `` official '' minor leagues attempted unsuccessfully to revive unaffiliated baseball within the organized baseball structure . These were the Class A Gulf States League ( 1976 ) and Lone Star League ( 1977 ) , and the Triple - A Inter -- American League ( 1979 ) . None lasted more than a full season .