Stanley Yelnats IV ( also known as `` Caveman '' by the rest of the campers , but referred to in the book by his proper name ) : Stanley is a 14 - year - old boy who does not have any friends from school and is often picked on by his classmates and the school bully . Stanley 's family is cursed with bad luck , and although they do not have much money , they always try to remain hopeful and look on the bright side of things . Stanley shares these traits with his family and , although he does not have a lot of self - confidence , he is not easily depressed , a characteristic that helps him adjust to the horrendous conditions of Camp Green Lake . However , he has a bad habit of blaming his great great grandfather when he gets in trouble . This habit made him impudent . As the book progresses , Stanley slowly gains strength . He identifies the people who threaten him , like the Warden , and while he tries not to get in trouble he also stands up for himself and his friends and family . Stanley rebels for the rights of his friends when he steals Mr. Sir 's truck to look for his friend Zero in the dry lake bed . Zero ( Hector Zeroni ) : Zero is known to be the best digger at Camp Green Lake . So often , he is considered to be `` stupid '' or a mere nothing by the other boys and the counselors at the lake . He lacks an education , meaning he can not really read nor write . However , he is smart and manages to stand for himself in the face of adversity . Typically he is noted as the character that hardly speaks due to the fact that he is wary of those who mock him . He is said to always have a scowl on his face and does not like to answer questions . Zero is shown to be an honest character after becoming close friends with Stanley . Zero is the one who steals the shoes that Stanley was arrested for and accused of stealing . He is the great - great - great - grandson of Madame Zeroni , the woman who put a curse on Stanley 's family . He has been homeless for most of his life , as well as being abandoned by his mother at a very young age . Although he suffers quite a bit , he always seems to persevere and come out on top . X-Ray ( Rex Washburn ) : X-Ray is the unofficial head of the boys in Group D. X-Ray decides that Stanley will be called Caveman and fixes the order of the line for water . X-Ray maintains his position as the leader of the boys even though he is one of the smallest and can barely see without his glasses . He convinces Stanley to give him the lipstick tube that Stanley finds in his hole so that he can have the day off instead of Stanley . X-Ray is able to maintain his position at the head of the group through a system of rewards and allies . Every time that Stanley does something nice for X-Ray , X-Ray is nice to Stanley and stands up for him when the other boys pick on him . When Stanley becomes friends with Zero , however , X-Ray's system is threatened and he becomes hostile towards Stanley . His nickname X-ray comes from it being pig Latin of his actual name , Rex . Squid ( Alan ) : Squid is a member of Group D at Camp Green Lake . He is often the one for taunting Stanley for sending and receiving letters to his mother . Just like X-Ray , Squid is very tough but very subservient to X-Ray's rules and directions . Magnet ( José ) : Another member of Group D. Magnet earned his nickname because of his ability to steal , he got into Camp Green Lake for stealing animals from the zoo and refers to his fingers as `` little magnets '' . Armpit ( Theodore Johnson ) : One of X-Ray's close friends at camp , he pushes Stanley when Stanley calls him Theodore . Zig Zag ( Ricky ) : Zigzag is described to being the tallest kid of Group D , constantly looking like he has been electrocuted , with frizzy hair . Stanley often thinks he is the weirdest and craziest kid at Camp Green Lake . Zigzag is the one who hit Stanley on the head with a shovel and did not apologize for doing so . Zigzag suffers from paranoia , highlighting his displayed `` craziness '' . The Warden ( Ms. Walker ) : Running Camp Green Lake , she is known to be violent , abusive , and quite mean . She uses her power and privilege to get what she wants and make members of the camp to do as she pleases . She has hidden cameras , using them to spy on the members of the camp . She is often thought of to have hidden cameras in the showers , causing Stanley to be paranoid whenever he took a shower , rushing out as fast as possible . She wears nail polish traced with rattlesnake venom , and scratches those when they displease or go against what she says . She has the members of Camp Green Lake digging holes to look for Kate Barlow 's hidden treasure . She is the granddaughter of Charles `` Trout '' Walker . Mr. Sir : One of the counselors at Camp Green Lake , he is constantly eating sunflower seeds . He took up this habit after deciding to quit smoking . He is known to be mean and tough . Mr. Pendanski : In Group D at Camp Green Lake Mr. Pendanski is in charge . Mr. Pendanski may seem friendly , but he is just as mean as the Warden and Mr. Sir . He never stops making fun of Zero .