Gazelle ( Hebr. , çebî , i.e. beauty ) has been known at all times as one of the most graceful of all animals . Several species still exist in Israel . Its different characteristics , its beauty of form , its swiftness , its timidity , the splendour and meekness of its eye , are in the present time , as well as during the age of the Old Testament writers , the subjects of many comparisons . However , the name of the gazelle is scarcely , if at all , to be found in the Bible ; in its stead we read roe , hart , or deer . Like a few other names of graceful and timid animals , the word gazelle has always been in the East a term of endearment in love . It was also a woman 's favourite name ( 1 Chronicles 8 : 9 ; 2 Kings 12 : 1 ; 2 Chronicles 24 : 1 ; Acts 9 : 36 ) . Gecko . -- Probable translation of the ' anãqah of the Hebrews , generally rendered in our versions by shrew - mouse , for which it seems it should be substituted . The gecko , ptyodactylus gecko of the naturalists , is common in Israel . Gier - eagle . -- So does A.V. render the Hebrew , rãhãm ( Leviticus 11 : 18 ) or rãhãmah ( Deuteronomy 14 : 17 ) . By the gier - eagle , the Egyptian vulture ( neophron percnopterus ) , or Pharao 's hen , is generally believed to be signified . However , whether this bird should be really recognized in the Hebrew , rãhãm , is not easy to decide ; for while , on the one hand , the resemblance of the Arabic name for the Egyptian vulture with the Hebrew word rãhãm seems fairly to support the identification , the mention of the rãhãm in a list of wading birds , on the other hand , casts a serious doubt on its correctness . Giraffe . -- See Camelopardalus ( sup . ) . Probably the תחשׁ ( taḥash ) . ( Numbers 4 : 5 - 15 ) . Mistranslated as badger or dolphin . Gnat . -- The same insect called sciniph in Ex. , viii , 16 , 17 and Ps . civ ( Hebr. , cv ) , 31 , and known under the familiar name of mosquito , Culex pipiens , is taken in the New Testament as an example of a trifle . Goat . -- Though the sacred writers spoke of the ewe more frequently than of the goat , yet with the latter they were very well acquainted . It was indeed , especially in the hilly regions east of the Jordan , an important item in the wealth of the Israelites . The goat of Israel , particularly the capra membrica , affords numerous illustrations and allusions , Its remarkably long ears are referred to by Amos , iii , 12 ; its glossy dark hair furnishes a graphic comparison to the author of Cant. , iv , 1 ; vi , 4 ; this hair was woven into a strong cloth ; the skin tanned with the hair on served to make bottles for milk , wine , oil , water , etc . The kid was an almost essential part of a feast . The goat is mentioned in Dan. , viii , 5 , as the symbol of the Macedonian empire . The grand Gospel scene of the separation of the just and the wicked on the last day is borrowed from the customs of the shepherds in the East . Goat , wild , Job , xxxix , 1 ; I K. , xxiv , 3 , where it is an equivalent for yã ' él , translated in Ps. , ciii ( Hebr. , Civ ) , 18 , as hart and in Prov. , v , 19 , as fawn , is most probably the ibex syriacus , a denizen of the rocky summits ( Ps . ciii ( Hebr. , civ ) , 18 ) . It was regarded as a model of grace ( Proverbs 5 : 19 ) , and its name , Jahel , Jahala , was frequently given to persons ( Judges 5 : 6 ; Ezra 2 : 56 , etc . ) . Grasshopper , is probably the best rendering for the Hebrew , hãgãb ( Lev. , xi , 22 ; Num. , xiii , 34 ( Hebrews 13 : 33 ) ; Is. , xl , 22 ; Eccles. , xii , 5 , etc . ) , as in the A.V. , if the Hebrew word be interpreted `` hopper '' as Credner suggests ; the D.V. uses the word locust . The grasshopper is one of the smaller species of the locust tribe . Griffon . -- So D.V. , Lev. , xi , 13 ( whereas Deuteronomy 14 : 12 , we read `` grype '' ) translates the Hebrew , pérés , the `` breaker '' whereby the lammergeyer or bearded vulture , gypœtus barbatus , the largest and most magnificent of the birds of prey is probably intended . The opinion that the Bible here speaks of the fabulous griffon , i.e. a monster begotten from a lion and an eagle , and characterized by the beak , neck , and wings of an eagle and the legs and rump of a lion , is based only on a misinterpretation of the word . Griffon vulture , a probable translation in several cases of the Hebrew , néshér , regularly rendered by eagle . This most majestic bird ( Gyps fulvus ) , the type , as it seems , of the eagle - headed figures of Assyrian sculpture , is most likely referred to in Mich. , i , 16 , on account of its bare neck and head . Grype , Deut. , xiv , 12 . See Griffon ( sup . ) .