No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) `` Pilot '' Adam Davidson Robert Kirkman & Dave Erickson August 23 , 2015 ( 2015 - 08 - 23 ) 10.13 Nick awakens in a heroin den in an abandoned church , to find his girlfriend Gloria eating a corpse . While fleeing , he is hit by a car and hospitalized . The doctor tells Madison and Travis that Nick 's claims about the incident are heroin hallucinations , but Travis believes Nick after visiting the church himself . Alicia becomes more worried about Nick 's chemical dependency . The next day , school closes early due to the high levels of absenteeism and rumors of an epidemic . Nick escapes from the hospital and meets with Calvin , hoping to learn if the drugs Calvin sold him caused him to hallucinate in the church . Calvin tries to kill Nick to prevent him from exposing Calvin as a drug dealer or impugning the quality of his drugs . In the ensuing struggle , Calvin is mortally shot . After Travis and Madison arrive , the zombified Calvin attacks them . Nick runs over Calvin repeatedly with Travis ' truck , and the three watch in disbelief as the mutilated Calvin is still able to turn his head towards them . `` So Close , Yet So Far '' Adam Davidson Marco Ramirez August 30 , 2015 ( 2015 - 08 - 30 ) 8.18 After the run - in with zombified Calvin , Nick , Madison , and Travis choose to flee to the desert , and they want Alicia , Liza , and Chris to follow . Alicia finds Matt ill in his disheveled house . Travis arrives and sees a bite on Matt , who convinces Alicia to leave . The group returns to Madison 's home to gather supplies . Nick suffers from heroin withdrawal , so Madison drives to her school to get him Oxycodone . There , she encounters Tobias scavenging food . A zombified Artie tries to bite Tobias , so Madison kills Artie and drives Tobias home . Chris ' bus is trapped in a traffic jam caused by a zombie shooting by the police . He films the event and joins in a protest against that and other recent fatal police shootings , when Travis and Liza meet up with him . A riot erupts after police shoot down another zombie , but the three Manawas find refuge with the Salazars in their gated barbershop - home . Travis tells Madison to take the kids to the desert without him ; he will catch up . Alicia witnesses her zombified neighbor , Mr. Dawson , attacking Mrs. Cruz across the street , but Madison prevents her from intervening . The group inside the barbershop remains trapped , while the riot outside intensifies . `` The Dog '' Adam Davidson Jack LoGiudice September 13 , 2015 ( 2015 - 09 - 13 ) 7.19 While a riot rages outside , a mob sets fire to the store adjoining the barbershop , forcing the Salazars and Manawas to flee . The group reaches Travis ' truck and escapes , but not before Griselda is injured by a collapsing scaffold . Unable to reach a hospital , the group drives to Madison 's house , where Nick , Madison , and Alicia temporarily flee when the zombified Mr. Dawson attempts to enter , attracted by the barking dog Nick had let in . Nick leads Madison and Alicia to the Trans ' house next door , where they take a shotgun . Travis arrives and is attacked by Mr. Dawson , who is shot and killed by Daniel . All three families decide to stay the night and evacuate in the morning . Nurse Liza tends to Griselda 's injured foot but notes that Griselda will die if not treated by a doctor . Ofelia tells Daniel they should flee with Travis , but Daniel insists his family can survive alone and will join his cousin later . The next morning , as the Clarks and Manawas start driving away , the National Guard arrives and quarantines the block . While Travis says , `` It 's going to get better , '' Daniel laments that it 's , `` too late , '' as he watches a guardsman mark the neighboring house . `` Not Fade Away '' Kari Skogland Meaghan Oppenheimer September 20 , 2015 ( 2015 - 09 - 20 ) 6.62 Days after the National Guard quarantines the neighborhood into a Safe Zone , residents try to live normally . Tensions build under the military rule . Madison is stressed by extra work caused by her home 's being overcrowded and Travis ' new role as civilian liaison . Chris shows a video to Travis and Madison of a light signaling from the Dead Zone . Travis talks Doug into getting mental help . Liza medically helps neighbors . Nick steals morphine from Hector via IV drip . Ofelia kisses Adams , who was unable to get Griselda 's medicine . Madison exchanges signals with the flashing light in the Dead Zone . She sneaks outside the fence to investigate and finds evidence that the guardsmen killed civilians , even the uninfected . Travis learns that Doug has been hospitalized for his mental issues . Dr. Exner determines that Liza is not technically a nurse . Daniel warns Madison of his El Salvador experience , when the sick were taken under the guise of receiving hospitalization but instead killed . Soldiers take Griselda and Nick to a hospital , but Nick 's family protests his departure . Liza agrees to go to assist the medical team , despite not wanting to leave her son . Travis retreats to the roof and sees the signal from the Dead Zone . Seconds later , he sees and hears gunfire , followed by darkness . 5 5 `` Cobalt '' Kari Skogland David Wiener September 27 , 2015 ( 2015 - 09 - 27 ) 6.66 In a military cell , Strand bribes a guardsman to save feverish Nick from being moved . Liza helps Dr. Exner with patients at the hospital . Chris is devastated that Liza left voluntarily to help at the hospital , but Travis promises to bring her back . Madison discovers Daniel detaining Adams in the Trans ' basement . Alicia and Chris get drunk in and vandalize the abandoned home of a wealthy family . Strand recruits Nick for an escape plot . Travis convinces Moyers ' squad to take him to the hospital to check on his friends . While en route , Moyers encourages Travis to shoot a zombie , but Travis is emotionally unable to pull the trigger . The soldiers stop to assist another squad in a building infested by zombies , and most of those soldiers , including Moyers , are overcome . The few survivors flee and drop off Travis near the Safe Zone . Travis learns that Daniel tortured Adams into revealing what `` Cobalt '' means : in the morning , all civilians will be killed , and the guardsmen will evacuate the city . Griselda dies of septic shock at the hospital ; Liza shoots her brain to prevent reanimation . Daniel visits a nearby sports arena to verify Adams ' story that it was sealed with 2,000 now - zombified civilians inside . 6 6 `` The Good Man '' Stefan Schwartz Robert Kirkman & Dave Erickson October 4 , 2015 ( 2015 - 10 - 04 ) 6.86 The group drives to the National Guard 's headquarters to rescue Liza , Griselda , and Nick . Adams agrees to be their guide when let go by Travis . The group infiltrates the base after Daniel distracts the guards by leading a horde of walkers from the arena . Travis , Madison , Daniel , and Ofelia go inside , while Alicia and Chris stay behind . Meanwhile , the walkers breach the perimeter defenses and swarm the base . Travis ' group reach the holding cells and set the detainees free before reuniting with Nick , Liza , and Strand . They try to escape through the medical ward , where they discover Dr. Exner has euthanized all of the patients . Dr. Exner tells them of an escape route before presumably committing suicide . Before they can escape , the group encounters Adams , who shoots Ofelia in the arm . Enraged , Travis brutally beats Adams and leaves him for dead . Strand leads the group to his oceanside mansion , where he reveals to Nick that he owns a yacht which he plans to escape on , called the Abigail . On the beach , Liza reveals to Madison that she had been bitten during the escape . Liza pleads with Madison and Travis to euthanize her before she turns . Travis promises to protect Chris before shooting Liza .