DJ Lance Rock -- ( Portrayed by Lance Robertson U.S. , voice dubbed by Ortis Deley in the UK ) A DJ who is the narrator and friend of the other characters and the series ' host . Muno -- ( Voiced by Adam Deibert U.S. , Bob Golding UK ) A friendly red cyclops boy . He 's the tallest , is somewhat clumsy and has a close bond with Foofa ( though she also bonds with Brobee in the same way ) . He is also the band 's guitarist . In the episodes `` Family '' , `` Circus '' , and `` Baby '' , his family makes an appearance . During Super Bowl XLIV , he appeared in a commercial for the Kia Sorento . His realm resembles the moon , another planet , or a desert and he has a pet horse . He has three stomachs as seen in the X-ray in the Season 1 episode `` Halloween '' ( # 13 ) . However another X-ray in the Season 1 episode `` Imagine '' ( # 20 ) shows him with one stomach , a normal heart and lungs . His catchphrase is `` Razzle Dazzle '' . Foofa -- ( Voiced by Emma Jacobs - Briggs U.S. , Teresa Gallagher UK ) A female flower bubble character who 's `` pink and happy . '' She likes flowers , rainbows and unicorns . Her instrument is the tambourine . Her realm is a spring or summer meadow . Brobee -- ( Voiced by Amos Watene U.S. , Simon Feilder UK ) A small , green monster boy and the baby of the gabbas . He is the drummer for the Gabba band . He is the one of the characters whose facial expression changes depending on the situation ; his normal face turning into a frown , and vice versa . He is often subjected to trying new foods . His realm is a vast autumn forest . It is mentioned that he is four years old . Toodee -- ( Voiced by Erin Pearce U.S. , Jonell Elliot UK ) A blue arctic female cat - dragon who loves to have fun . She has a close bond with Plex and is the bassist for the Gabba band . She resides in a winter arctic realm , with icicles . Plex -- ( Voiced by Christian Jacobs U.S. , Simon Feilder UK ) A magic yellow robot boy and the oldest of the gabbas and he is Toodee 's love instest . He is portrayed as being smart and as the leader of Gabba Land . Plex usually teaches lessons to his friends and is a father figure to the gang . He can also use his special ray to bring things into existence . His instrument is the keytar . He has no realm in particular , though he seems to have a `` docking station '' between Foofa and Brobee 's realms . In `` Gabbaland Begins '' , Plex is the last in DJ Lance 's original creations after he goes through Muno , Foofa , Brobee , and Toodee , although , Brobee is supposedly a four - year - old in the series . Gooble - ( Voiced by Joel Fox U.S. ) A ghost who is always so sad and crying . He resides in a haunted house located in a non-gabba land - place named `` Gooble Land '' .