Sam and Dean find cases of individuals meeting gruesome deaths in Prosperity , Indiana . Several of the crime scenes , however , contain ancient Romanian coins , acting as hexed objects . The brothers learn that each victim was connected to Donald Stark ( James Marsters ) , a wealthy businessman , philanthropist and pillar of the community . While Donald assures the brothers that the business deal he and the victims were in had nothing to do with their deaths , Sam searches the house and discovers that Donald 's wife , Maggie ( Charisma Carpenter ) , is a powerful witch who is currently separating from Donald . In the process , though , Maggie is killing people connected to ' helping ' Donald set up a fling with one of the victims . Heading to Maggie 's house , Sam and Dean learn that Donald 's personal assistant is next , and manage to save her before Maggie 's curse kills her . Later on , however , it is revealed that Donald himself is a witch , as he uses his powers to destroy Maggie 's auction paintings and decapitate her best friend . When Sam and Dean realize this , they wait for the two to meet at Donald 's house , then try to kill them using a spell with chicken feet . The spell fails , and Sam suggests they counsel the witches on their failing marriage to prevent them from killing Dean and himself . Although they manage to counsel the witches , they are summarily thrown around and beaten for seeming to side with the other party , until Dean is able to say that Donald never tried to have a relationship with his receptionist . The two witches reconcile their love , and Sam and Dean leave with their lives . At the hotel , however , Sam and Dean are confronted by one of the Leviathans , who had been tracking them for days . After almost killing Sam , the Leviathan is rendered unconscious by a spell from Donald , who had dropped by to save the brothers ' lives ( initially ) from Maggie 's coin curses . Sam and Dean bind up the Leviathan for transport to Bobby 's , in order to determine how to defeat the new monsters .