No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) 21 `` The Adventures of Supergirl '' Glen Winter Story by : Greg Berlanti & Andrew Kreisberg Teleplay by : Andrew Kreisberg & Jessica Queller October 10 , 2016 ( 2016 - 10 - 10 ) T13. 20151 3.06 Kara finds an unknown young man lying unconscious in the pod and takes him to DEO . She prepares for a date with James just as the commercial spacecraft , the Venture , is launched into space . It suffers engine failure and descends to Earth , but Kara saves the craft with help from Superman . They discover the main target was Lena Luthor , the new CEO of Luthor Corp after her brother , Lex , was convicted of numerous crimes . In a ceremony where she renames the company L - Corp , she is attacked again by John Corben , an assassin . Alex engages him while Kara and Clark stop a building from collapsing . Corben reveals he was working for Lex before he is shot by Lena . Kara chooses to be a reporter for CatCo , a decision supported by Cat . Kara and James decide to keep their relationship friendly . Winn is formally hired to work at the DEO . Meanwhile , J'onn reveals to Alex that he was the one who found the first cluster of Kryptonite and decided to keep it against the wishes of Clark , who wanted to destroy it . At Project Cadmus , the organization 's leader revives Corben and begins turning him into a being called Metallo . 22 `` The Last Children of Krypton '' Glen Winter Robert Rovner & Caitlin Parrish October 17 , 2016 ( 2016 - 10 - 17 ) T13. 20152 2.66 Kara and Clark continue operating together in National City before he decides to return to Metropolis . When they encounter Corben , who has turned into Project Cadmus ' prototypical cyborg , his Kryptonite - based powers pose a serious threat . The DEO deduces that there is a mole who smuggled the Kryptonite out . During a subsequent encounter with Corben , another Metallo prototype goes on a rampage in Metropolis without opposition . Alex finds the mole , but he is killed by Cadmus 's leader , a scientist who intends to destroy aliens . Winn builds anti-Kryptonite gear for Kara and Clark , who manage to defeat the Metallos with the help of Alex and Hank . Kara promises the Cadmus leader she will find her . Hank entrusts the remaining Kryptonite to Clark , who returns to Metropolis . Meanwhile , Cat introduces Kara to the latter 's new boss , Snapper Carr , who does not like her and refuses to give her an assignment . Cat advises her to solve the problem herself and announces that she has decided to leave CatCo , leaving James in charge . Kara manages to prove her value to Snapper , who agrees to teach her . At the DEO , the alien man regains consciousness and attacks Kara . 23 `` Welcome to Earth '' Rachel Talalay Jessica Queller & Derek Simon October 24 , 2016 ( 2016 - 10 - 24 ) T13. 20153 2.65 The alien man escapes the DEO . As President Olivia Marsdin arrives in National City to sign an act giving all aliens amnesty , she is attacked by an unknown alien with the power to shoot fiery energy , believed to be the escapee . Alex encounters police detective Maggie Sawyer at the crime scene , who takes her to a secret bar hosting aliens . Winn discovers the DEO escapee is from Daxam , Krypton 's sister planet . Kara defeats the Daxamite and returns him to the DEO . She is uncharacteristically hostile towards him , prejudging his intentions because of a long feud between the Kryptonians and Daxamites . The President is attacked again while signing the Alien Amnesty Act ; the assailant is revealed to be a woman , Scorch , who is defeated by Kara , Alex , and Maggie . Kara releases the Daxamite , who introduces himself as Mon - El . She tells him that Daxam 's population was annihilated and that Daxam is a wasteland due to Krypton 's destruction . Olivia briefly flashes an alien face as she leaves , unbeknownst to the members of the DEO . Meanwhile , Kara interviews Lena , who reveals that L - Corp has invented an alien detection device . In the bar , Hank encounters M'gann M'orzz , a female Green Martian . 24 `` Survivors '' James Marshall James Bamford Paula Yoo & Eric Carrasco October 31 , 2016 ( 2016 - 10 - 31 ) T13. 20154 2.22 J'onn asks that Mon - El stay at the DEO until he is fully examined . An alien body is found and the DEO track down the murderer , who is then kidnapped by unknown armed men . Maggie and Alex track him down to a secret facility where a woman , Veronica Sinclair ( also known as Roulette ) , hosts rich and powerful people . The aliens are forced to duel , sometimes to the death . They spot M'gann as a contestant before Kara intervenes and is attacked by an alien called Draaga , who overpowers her and escapes . J'onn confronts M'gann , who confesses her intense guilt for having survived the extinction of her species . Veronica abducts J'onn with M'gann's help . Using Lena , Kara finds the fight club 's new address , where J'onn and M'gann are forced to duel until J'onn convinces her to stop blaming herself and she refuses to continue . When they are attacked by Draaga , Kara arrives and defeats him thanks to Mon - El 's advice . She dissuades the other aliens from protecting Veronica , who is arrested but later released by orders from on high . M'gann secretly shapeshifts to reveal that she is a White Martian . 25 5 `` Crossfire '' Glen Winter Gabriel Llanas & Anna Musky - Goldwyn November 7 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 07 ) T13. 20155 2.47 A group of robbers , led by Chet Miner , starts challenging Supergirl using alien guns . Cadmus demands the repealing of the Amnesty as a solution . Kara deduces that Cadmus is arming Miner 's team . Lena holds a fundraiser which is attacked by Miner and his men . She reveals to Winn that the fundraiser was a ruse for the robbers and they activate a device that destroys the alien weapons , leading to the robbers ' arrest . Miner and his team are killed by Cadmus before he can expose them . The leader of Cadmus is revealed to be Lillian , Lena 's adoptive mother . Meanwhile , Kara takes Mon - El to CatCo for work , but he continuously ignores her commands , leading to him being fired . Alex convinces her to let him choose his own path . James starts operating as a vigilante . Winn finds out and initially reprimands him , but finally decides to help , intending to make a suit for him . Alex learns that Maggie has broken up with her girlfriend and tries to cheer her up , with Maggie realizing Alex is a lesbian and Alex herself accepting that fact . 26 6 `` Changing '' Larry Teng Story by : Greg Berlanti Teleplay by : Andrew Kreisberg & Caitlin Parrish November 14 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 14 ) T13. 20156 2.35 In Norway , a group of scientists led by Dr. Jones discover an abnormal wolf corpse , resulting in the mysterious murder of all of the scientists except Jones , who is revealed to be infected by a parasite . The DEO finds out that Jones killed the other scientists . Kara gets angry with Mon - El when she finds out that he has been using his powers to make money . The DEO predicts Jones ' next target and Kara and J'onn attempt to stop him , but he drains their powers , becomes larger and stronger , and escapes , leaving the pair weakened and unconscious and J'onn near death . Alex convinces M'gann to donate blood in order to save J'onn . Jones attacks his target again , but Mon - El intervenes . With his suit ready , James arrives to fight Jones too , taking the alias `` Guardian . '' Kara regains consciousness and attacks Jones , using Plutonium 239 , which he absorbs , causing him to overload with energy and implode . James convinces Winn not to tell Kara about his alter ego . Mon - El is abducted by Cadmus . Meanwhile , Alex tells Kara about her feelings for Maggie . Kara encourages her to tell Maggie how she feels , but Maggie reveals that she would prefer to remain friends , upsetting Alex . 27 7 `` The Darkest Place '' Glen Winter Robert Rovner & Paula Yoo November 21 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 21 ) T13. 20157 2.61 A new vigilante appears and starts killing some of the criminals . Mon - El continues his escape plans . Lillian demands Kara come to Cadmus . Kara is overpowered by the real Hank , who is enhanced and called the `` Cyborg Superman . '' Winn helps identify vigilante criminal targets with James help to try and stop the serial killer . Lillian forces Kara to deplete her powers , giving the former the chance to take blood samples . Mon - El watches as Kara solar flares with depleted powers for Lillian . Jeremiah saves Kara and Mon - El and helps them escape by staying behind . Kara finally approves of the Guardian , unaware of his true identity only known to Alex . Mon - El recognises feelings for Kara . Cyborg Superman arrives at the Fortress of Solitude demanding to know about the `` Medusa '' project . Meanwhile , J'onn begins having hallucinations about M'gann locked in the DEO . She warns him about the transfusion . Alex finally accepts Maggie . 28 8 `` Medusa '' Stefan Pleszczynski Jessica Queller & Derek Simon November 28 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 28 ) T13. 20158 3.53 Cyborg Superman unleashes a virus in the alien bar , killing every alien there except Mon - El , who is quarantined by the DEO . Eliza Danvers , visiting for Thanksgiving , determines that the virus is Kryptonian . At the Fortress of Solitude , Kara learns that Henshaw was after `` Medusa '' , a virus created by her father , Zor - El , to kill non-Kryptonians in case of alien invasion . At L - Corp , she stops Henshaw from getting the isotope required to disperse Medusa . Lena refuses to help when Kara reveals that Lillian is Cadmus ' leader . Later , Lena willingly gives Lillian the isotope . Kara and J'onn confront the Luthors and Henshaw before Medusa is disseminated via rocket launcher . J'onn fights Henshaw , becoming a White Martian , while Kara chases the rocket , which explodes and disperses Medusa . However , Lena has double - crossed Lillian and rendered the virus inert . Lillian is arrested , but Henshaw escapes . Eliza cures Mon - El and uses Medusa to restore J'onn's Green Martian form . Alex comes out to Eliza , who supports her . Later , Maggie and Alex kiss after Maggie admits she does have feelings for Alex . An unknown alien race is searching for Mon - El . Barry Allen and Cisco Ramon arrive from their Earth to enlist Kara 's help . This episode ends with a scene setting up the crossover event `` Invasion ! '' that begins on The Flash season 3 episode 8 , continues on Arrow season 5 episode 8 , and concludes on Legends of Tomorrow season 2 episode 7 . 29 9 `` Supergirl Lives '' Kevin Smith Story by : Andrew Kreisberg Teleplay by : Eric Carrasco & Jess Kardos January 23 , 2017 ( 2017 - 01 - 23 ) T13. 20159 2.65 Winn gets beaten aiding James , leading the former to believe he is not fit for field work . Kara starts investigating a strange series of missing persons . The DEO tracks the kidnappings to a fake clinical trial run by aliens . Searching for the missing people , Kara and Mon - El pass through a portal and land on the planet Maaldoria , epicenter of the slave trade . Realizing that they will not have their powers due to Maaldoria 's red sun , the pair tracks the kidnappees to a fortress , intentionally getting captured to wind up in the same cell as the others . They learn that Roulette is involved in the trafficking . Meanwhile , J'onn reveals that the Maaldorian atmosphere is lethal to Martians , making Alex the lead on the rescue team . She convinces Winn to join her , despite his misgivings . Kara incites a riot and the prisoners lock Roulette and her Maaldorian accomplice in the cell before escaping . After reuniting with the DEO , they get to the portal and return to Earth . Winn accepts his potential , while Mon - El , whom the Maaldorians intentionally allowed to leave , decides to become a superhero . An alien group is revealed to be searching for Mon - El . Maggie tells Alex about her knowledge of Kara 's alter ego . 30 10 `` We Can Be Heroes '' Rebecca Johnson Caitlin Parrish & Katie Rose Rogers January 30 , 2017 ( 2017 - 01 - 30 ) T13. 20160 2.35 Kara starts training Mon - El . Leslie is found to be out of prison . Kara and Mon - El go off to engage Livewire , but it turns out to be another woman , who attacks the pair with a male of the same abilities . Mon - El ignores Kara 's instructions to protect the civilians , choosing to save her instead . The Guardian arrives and aids them . Their adversaries escape and Kara finds out about James ' alter ego , scolding him and Winn . She also gets angry with Mon - El for prioritizing her over the others . The DEO learns that Leslie was actually abducted from incarceration . Winn locates her . James and Mon - El rush there to prove themselves . The duo is captured by a scientist who has been draining Leslie 's powers and giving them to his subjects . Kara arrives and saves them , freeing Leslie and dissuading her from killing the scientist in exchange for allowing her to escape . Kara rejects James ' offer for cooperation in vigilantism . Mon - El confirms his feelings for her . Meanwhile , M'gann loses consciousness . J'onn agrees to bond with her . In a shared memory , he tells her that she is forgiven . She regains consciousness and J'onn frees her . She reveals that the White Martians are searching for her . 31 11 `` The Martian Chronicles '' David McWhirter Gabriel Llanas & Anna Musky - Goldwyn February 6 , 2017 ( 2017 - 02 - 06 ) T13. 20161 2.43 J'onn starts following M'gann so as to protect her . Armek , her former mate , comes to Earth with orders to take her back to Mars for execution and gives her two hours to surrender before he goes after her friends . Fearful , J'onn decides to bring her to the DEO for protection . The real M'gann shows up , revealing the other one to be Armek in disguise , forcing J'onn to put the DEO into lockdown . Assuming Winn 's identity , Armek initiates a meltdown in the building 's nuclear reactor while another White Martian posing as Alex ambushes Kara . J'onn and M'gann free the real Winn and Alex and confront Armek , killing him with a metal pole . Winn fixes the reactor in time and Alex helps Kara subdue the other Martian . Afterwards , M'gann informs J'onn that she intends to return to her home planet in order to reform her people . Encouraged by Alex , Kara tries to ask Mon - El out on a date , only to find that he already has a relationship with Eve . 32 12 `` Luthors '' Tawnia McKiernan Robert Rovner & Cindy Lichtman February 13 , 2017 ( 2017 - 02 - 13 ) T13. 20162 2.52 Lena testifies against Lillian , and Kara encourages her to visit Lillian , who reveals that she is her husband 's daughter from another woman . A package of synthetic Kryptonite is sent to Corben . While testifying , he attacks the court and frees Lillian . A faked video is leaked showing Lena stealing the Kryptonite and she is arrested on suspicion of helping Lillian . Corben breaks her out . Kara remains the only person to believe in Lena 's innocence . Lillian takes Lena to a remote facility set up by Lex before his imprisonment and forces her to access a stockpile of alien weapons , several of which she takes . Kara arrives and intervenes . Winn determines that the synthetic Kryptonite is becoming increasingly unstable and will soon explode . Kara manages to save Lena before Corben self - destructs while Lillian and Henshaw escape by helicopter . Lena is exonerated , but begins contemplating her relationship with her family , especially Lex . Kara and Mon - El , who had a disastrous date with Teschmacher , confess their feelings for each other at her apartment when a man calling himself Mister Mxyzptlk arrives and declares his love for her . Meanwhile , Alex introduces Maggie to the group as her girlfriend . 33 13 `` Mr. & Mrs. Mxyzptlk '' Stefan Pleszczynski Jessica Queller & Sterling Gates February 20 , 2017 ( 2017 - 02 - 20 ) T13. 20163 2.24 This episode 's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed . Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise . ( May 2018 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) Mxyzptlk , an imp from the fifth dimension who can manipulate reality , proposes marriage to Kara , whose refusal he sees as a challenge . Mon - El suggests killing Mxyzptlk , which she rejects . Mxyzptlk summons Parasite to attack National City before killing it in order to impress her . Mon - El inadvertently reveals that another way to remove imps is by getting them to say or spell their names backwards . Later , Winn discovers a device in the DEO 's collection that is connected to the same fifth dimensional energy from which Mxyzptlk draws power . Mon - El attempts to use it to duel with Mxyzptlk to the death . Mxyzptlk eventually gains the upper hand and tries to kill Mon - El , only for Kara to arrive and agree to marry him . He later arrives at the Fortress of Solitude for their wedding , but Kara states that she will not marry him . Angered , he attacks her , but she stops the battle by locking the fortress down and activating the self - destruct sequence . Mxyzptlk begs for the code to stop the countdown but , after inputting the code , realizes that it spells his name backwards , vanquishing him . Mon - El and Kara develop a romance . Meanwhile , Winn starts dating Lyra Strayd , an alien from Starhaven , and Alex and Maggie celebrate their first Valentine 's Day together . 34 14 `` Homecoming '' Larry Teng Caitlin Parrish & Derek Simon February 27 , 2017 ( 2017 - 02 - 27 ) T13. 20164 2.17 The DEO receives an alarm regarding a convoy departing from Cadmus . Kara and J'onn investigate and rescue a chained Jeremiah , who claims Cadmus has created a fusion bomb using energy from her heat vision . He persuades J'onn to reinstate him back at the DEO , which makes Mon - El suspicious , causing friction between him and Kara . He persuades Winn to watch Jeremiah , who attempts to access the DEO 's database , alerting Winn . After confronting Jeremiah , Kara is hesitant to accept his excuse , while Alex believes him . Winn locates the purported bomb , but the DEO finds nothing at the location . J'onn realizes he can not read Jeremiah 's mind and that he is working for Cadmus , having been cybernetically enhanced . Jeremiah overpowers J'onn and downloads information from the mainframe before escaping . Kara and Alex confront Jeremiah , Lillian , and Henshaw , and Kara rushes to save a train that Cadmus endangered while Alex goes after the trio . Jeremiah escapes due to Alex 's reluctance to shoot him . Winn later determines that Jeremiah downloaded the list of all the registered aliens in the country . 35 15 `` Exodus '' Michael Allowitz Paula Yoo & Eric Carrasco March 6 , 2017 ( 2017 - 03 - 06 ) T13. 20165 2.16 Cadmus begins abducting aliens , so Kara asks Snapper to publish an article , but he insists on verifying her sources . When Supergirl confirms the story but refuses to reveal her own source , Snapper refuses to publish . Alex 's bias towards Jeremiah leads to J'onn suspending her , but Maggie decides to help her find him . They stop a Cadmus team from abducting an alien and find Cadmus ' holding site . Lena also finds out about the site before Lillian 's operatives attempt to stop her , but Kara manages to save Lena . At the Cadmus site , Alex is captured and Jeremiah reveals that Cadmus is planning to deport the aliens to another planet in a large spaceship . Meanwhile , Kara publishes the story on a blog , forcing Lillian to deport the aliens she already has . Alex convinces Jeremiah to help her stop the launch and , while he engages Cadmus operatives , she enters the ship and frees the aliens , but they are locked inside by another gate before the ship launches , programmed to accelerate to light speed once exiting the atmosphere . Supergirl arrives and manages to stop the ship . Snapper fires Kara from CatCo , while Alex is reinstated by J'onn . Daxamites arrive near the Moon . 36 16 `` Star - Crossed '' John Medlen Katie Rose Rogers & Jess Kardos March 20 , 2017 ( 2017 - 03 - 20 ) T13. 20166 2.07 The Daxamites demand the humans relinquish Mon - El , who surrenders . Kara accompanies him and learns that Mon - El is actually the Prince of Daxam . The ship is commanded by his parents , who want him to lead his people and rebuild Daxam . Kara becomes angry with Mon - El for lying to her . She and Mon - El return to Earth . He apologizes several times , but to no avail . She eventually ends the relationship . Mon - El demands his parents leave him and Earth . Meanwhile , Winn and Lyra break into an art museum for a tryst . He is later arrested by Maggie , who reveals that a painting is missing . Alex convinces Maggie to give them 24 hours to prove Winn 's innocence . They find and capture Lyra , who reveals that her brother , Bastian , owes a large sum to a smuggler named Mandrax . She steals paintings to pay down Bastian 's debt . Winn frees Lyra as part of a sting operation . The DEO and Guardian then confront and arrest Mandrax and free Bastian . Winn later forgives Lyra 's dishonesty . The DEO has captured a new alien , who quickly hypnotizes Kara and escapes to Earth - 1 to fight Barry . Kara wakes up in a hallucination where she is a lounge singer . This episode is a crossover with The Flash season 3 episode 17 . The scene at the end of the episode sets up the crossover . 37 17 `` Distant Sun '' Kevin Smith Gabriel Llanas & Anna Musky - Goldwyn March 27 , 2017 ( 2017 - 03 - 27 ) T13. 20167 2.21 Kara is attacked by a series of alien bounty hunters . Mon - El suspects his parents are responsible and hope that he will abandon Earth if Kara is dead . His suspicion is confirmed after J'onn telepathically interrogates one of the hunters . Kara suggests she and Mon - El meet with Rhea , his mother , to change her mind . However , Rhea refuses to listen and tries to kill Kara using Kryptonite , so Mon - El agrees to leave Earth if she spares Kara 's life . Against President Marsdin 's orders , J'onn helps Kara rescue Mon - El from his parents ' ship and , after a fierce battle , King Lar Gand agrees to let Mon - El stay on Earth . Marsdin is revealed to be an alien . Rhea kills Lar Gand for what she views as his betrayal and vows to return to Earth to reclaim Mon - El . Meanwhile , after an encounter with an ex-girlfriend of Maggie 's , Alex learns that Maggie neglected to tell her that she cheated on the woman , prompting a frank discussion in which Alex asks Maggie to trust her with her secrets . 38 18 `` Ace Reporter '' Armen V. Kevorkian Paula Yoo & Caitlin Parrish April 24 , 2017 ( 2017 - 04 - 24 ) T13. 20168 1.80 Lena invites Kara to a press conference being held by her former boyfriend Jack Spheer , who unveils Biomax , a new nanobot technology that can heal human ailments . After the conference , Kara is approached and told the human trials of Biomax were faked , but her source is killed by the nanobots before she is told more . Kara and Mon - El crash Lena and Jack 's dinner date and take Jack 's keycard for his office , discovering footage showing Jack injecting Biomax into himself . Kara later shows the footage to Lena , who confronts Jack and discovers he is being controlled by his CFO Beth Breen via the side effect of the nanobots , loss of free will . Supergirl then turns up to save Lena , but when the former is trapped by the nanobots , Lena is forced to deactivate them , killing Jack in the process . Breen is incarcerated and Snapper rehires Kara at CatCo for providing the Biomax story . Lena is visited by Rhea . Meanwhile , Winn brings Lyra onto the team with him and Guardian , causing tensions that lead to Lyra leaving the team . James returns her to the team with the condition that she follow his instructions . 39 19 `` Alex '' Rob Greenlea Eric Carrasco & Greg Baldwin May 1 , 2017 ( 2017 - 05 - 01 ) T13. 20169 1.75 Alex is abducted by a person who demands the release of Peter Thompson , a man serving a life sentence for several felonies . The kidnapper is identified as Rick Malverne , Thompson 's son and also a childhood friend of the Danvers , having deduced Kara 's alter ego on his own . Rick is captured and taken to the DEO . Alex sends a location to Winn , but when Kara rushes to the coordinates , the trap triggers an alarm , causing water to start filling Alex 's cell . While the DEO and Kara refuse to negotiate with Rick , Maggie tries to break Thompson out of prison before being confronted by Kara , who convinces Thompson to reveal Alex 's location . Kara and Maggie manage to rescue Alex in time and Alex and Maggie profess their love for each other . J'onn decides to wipe Rick 's memory . Meanwhile , Rhea gives Lena the schematics of a high - tech device for transporting matter . Lena soon deduces that Rhea is an alien and becomes angry , but Rhea manages to convince her to continue working with her . 40 20 `` City of Lost Children '' Ben Bray Story by : Robert Rovner Teleplay by : Gabriel Llanas & Anna Musky - Goldwyn May 8 , 2017 ( 2017 - 05 - 08 ) T13. 20170 1.88 James becomes discouraged with being Guardian when he realizes that those he helps are afraid of him . The DEO investigates a Phorian woman who uses her telekinetic powers to cause rampage . James tracks down her son , Marcus , who refuses to speak with anyone but James , who spends time bonding with him . With Rhea 's encouragement , Lena completes the matter transporter , which Rhea activates , causing Marcus to nearly destroy the office with his powers . Afterwards , the DEO discovers Rhea and Lena 's involvement and that Marcus 's mother 's `` attack '' was unintentional on her part . Marcus leads James and Winn to his mother , who is with a large group of Phorians . Rhea reactivates the transporter , causing the Phorians to lose control . James manages to calm Marcus , who in turn calms the others . Kara , J'onn , and Mon - El attempt to shut down the transporter , but are unsuccessful . Mon - El confronts Rhea , but hesitates to kill her . The transporter brings a massive fleet of Daxamite ships to conquer Earth and transform it into `` New Daxam '' . Rhea then teleports herself , Mon - El , and Lena to her ship . 41 21 `` Resist '' Millicent Shelton Jessica Queller & Derek Simon May 15 , 2017 ( 2017 - 05 - 15 ) T13. 20171 1.93 The Daxamites launch a full invasion of National City , killing and arresting civilians . They also attack the DEO , but Alex and Winn manage to escape . Mon - El learns that he has to marry Lena in order to unite the people of Earth with Daxam . On Air Force One , Marsdin and Cat contact Rhea and demand their withdrawal , but the Daxamite fleet fires on them . Kara saves Cat and they discover that Marsdin is an alien , a refugee from the planet Durla . She tasks the DEO with destroying the Daxamite mother ship with a special cannon . Hesitant to do so , Kara turns to Cadmus for a way into the ship . Cat and Winn stage a distraction , inciting a civilian riot against the Daxamites , while Kara , Hank , and Lillian use a Phantom Zone projector to board the ship . Alex and Maggie regain control of the cannon , while the Luthors escape and try to disable the projector . Having predicted that , Supergirl is able to send Mon - El to safety and goes to confront Rhea , who reveals that she has taken control of Superman and has him attack Kara . 42 22 `` Nevertheless , She Persisted '' Glen Winter Story by : Andrew Kreisberg & Jessica Queller Teleplay by : Robert Rovner & Caitlin Parrish May 22 , 2017 ( 2017 - 05 - 22 ) T13. 20172 2.12 Rhea used Silver Kryptonite to manipulate Kal 's senses , causing Kara to appear to be General Zod . Kara eventually overpowers and takes him to the Fortress , where a recovered Kal finds a way to end the invasion . Kara challenges Rhea to Dakkam Ur , a rite in which two leaders duel and the loser concedes the war , accepted by Rhea . Lillian , Lena and Winn build a device to disperse lead into the atmosphere . As lead is lethal to Daxamites , it would make the planet uninhabitable to them . With Mon - El 's approval , Kara tells the DEO to use it if she loses . During the duel , Rhea resumes the invasion . M'gann returns with other benevolent White Martians and J'onn awakens to join the battle . Rhea claims the invasion will not stop even if she loses , so Kara launches the device , killing Rhea and forcing the fleet to leave . Kara puts Mon - El in a pod and sends him away from Earth . Cat reassumes her position at CatCo and Alex asks Maggie to marry her . In deep space , Mon - El 's pod is drawn into a wormhole . In flashbacks to Krypton 's destruction , an unknown faction sends another infant to Earth in order to `` reign . ''