Cole Sprouse portrays Cody Martin , the calm , mature , and smarter twin . He is a `` straight A '' student ( except for wood shop , in which he receives a C , but uses Pass Fail ) , making him better , academically , than his brother Zack , who gets `` D '' s . In the first season of the show , it was revealed that Cody is ten minutes younger than Zack . Janice and Jessica seem to like Cody more ( due to his sensitive nature ) . Cody has an on - again , off - again girlfriend named Barbara . Cody is the more gentle twin compared to his brother and somehow always gets talked into going along with Zack 's schemes . In The Fairest of Them All , he dressed as a girl to win money . He never drinks soda after 9 : 30 ( unless he is at a bachelor party ) . Dylan Sprouse portrays Zack Martin , the self - centered , outgoing , immature twin , who usually dresses in skater and baggy - camo clothes . At school , he is a straight `` D '' student , although he does well in wood shop . In the first season of the show it was revealed that Zack is ten minutes older than Cody , as he was born at 6 : 30 and Cody at 6 : 40 which he uses against Cody , normally telling him , since he 's older , to do some sort of job that he does n't want to do . Or in some cases , give him `` brotherly '' advice because , `` I 'm the older twin . '' He has a big crush on Maddie , but after the first season , he was showing this less frequently . He has also taken advantage of his teachers and has faked conditions like dyslexia ( in Smart and Smarterer ) . Brenda Song portrays London Tipton , the only daughter of Wilfred Tipton , the owner of the Tipton Hotel . London is a rich , dimwitted teenager with her own private suite at the Tipton Hotel in Boston , complete with a large wardrobe with several divisions ( each with their own talking mirror ) and a kitchen . London loves fashion ; she only wears designer clothes and hates plaid , especially the plaid Catholic school uniforms . She does not have a nanny , or any other adult , to help her but relies on the Tipton Hotel Staff for any assistance or guidance . In the episode Forever Plaid , due to her poor attendance at her old school , she transferred to the same Catholic girls ' school , `` Our Lady of Perpetual Sorrow , '' that Maddie attends . In the episode First Day of High School , London transfers to Zack and Cody 's public school , `` Cheevers High , '' due to being expelled from all of the private schools she had previously attended . She dislikes her step - moms ( previous and current ) and usually talks to Mr. Moseby and Maddie about her problems . When happy she always claps her hands repeatedly while saying her catchphrase , `` Yay me ! '' She also has her own web show called Yay Me ! Starring London Tipton that exists both within the program and in the real world . London often refuses to go to school and even skipped detention twice . Though it seems like London may lead the ultimate rich - girl life , her childhood was not perfect . In the episode Arwinstein , she states she is allergic to lobster , although in one episode she asked Maddie for a lobster dinner . However , it is possible that she developed an allergy to lobster after the earlier episodes and before the later ones . It is also revealed in one episode that she must think about what she does before doing it . For example , she was walking through the lobby while thinking `` left , right , blink , breathe '' in the episode Super Twins ( although this was Zack 's dream ) . London is a shopaholic who shops to fill the void of lack of attention from her father . Ashley Tisdale portrays Maddie Fitzpatrick , the teenage candy - counter girl at the Tipton Hotel , who throughout the series holds several other jobs / positions including a cashier at the Cluck Bucket , manager on the Camp Tipton Daycare Center , and counselor for her school 's summer camp program -- Camp Heaven on Earth . She also visits Antarctica during the series to help save the penguins . While she comes from a lower - class family , Maddie is very hard - working , outspoken , and intelligent . On the occasions that her selfish side comes out , she can be a bigger opportunist than London , though she always loses out when this side of her personality is shown . Like Esteban , it is shown she has an incredibly long name ; in the episode `` Pilot Your Own Life , '' it is revealed to be Madeline Margaret Genevieve Miranda Catherine Fitzpatrick . She attends private school at `` Our Lady of Perpetual Sorrow '' and later attends `` Cheevers High . '' Maddie is London 's closest friend , though London often treats her like a servant , as in the episode Footloser , usually bribing her with money . Maddie also babysat Zack and Cody throughout season one . Zack has a huge crush on her in Season One , however the crush is less visible during the other two seasons . She is a strong supporter of environmental causes . She is left - handed . It is revealed that she has asthma . She also plays volleyball as seen in the episode `` Volley Dad . She appeared sporadically throughout Season 3 . Phill Lewis portrays Mr. Marion Moseby , the stern and uptight manager of the Tipton Hotel , who speaks with a large vocabulary and an urbane vernacular , and is often annoyed by Zack 's and Cody 's schemes . It is later revealed that his first name is Marion and the majority of the other characters often made fun of his masculinity because of his feminine name , as well as his experience as a ballet dancer . His repeated catch phrases , `` Good luck with that '' or `` Pish posh '' have become his trademark . Though he acts as though he does not care about the boys , he actually has a great deal of affection for them . For example , when Mr. Moseby took the boys to a baseball game , he caught a ball for Cody , ultimately making Mr. Moseby `` the most hated man in Boston '' . In the episode `` The Ghost of 613 , '' it is revealed that he started out at the Tipton as a bellhop back in the 1970s , and had a `` voluminous ' fro '' . Mr. Moseby is more of a father to London than her own , because Mr. Tipton is seldom around . Moseby even taught London how to walk , her ABCs , and tried to teach her how to drive . He cares for London and treats her like his own child . He also helps London with any problems she is having . He was also known as the `` Meanager , '' due to his stern persona . He has an older brother named Spencer , who is a little person ( played by Dana Michael Woods ) , who is very wealthy and lactose intolerant . His mother 's ' name is Beulah Moseby , who favors Spencer , but still likes Marion . His grandmother is Rose Moseby ( whom Phill Lewis also plays ) who visits him in the episode `` Nugget of History '' . He has a 16 - year - old niece named Nia Moseby ( played by Giovonnie Samuels ) who comes to stay with him during the third season and temporarily replaces Maddie as candy counter girl , while she is in Antarctica .