No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original release date `` The New World '' David Semel Frank Spotnitz January 15 , 2015 ( 2015 - 01 - 15 ) A young man , Joe Blake , volunteers to serve the resistance by driving a truck from Nazi New York to the neutral zone in the Rockies . In Japan - occupied San Francisco , Juliana Crain receives a package from her sister Trudy , only to see her get shot by the Japanese police . She returns home where her boyfriend Frank urges her to go to the police and tell them she had nothing to do with Trudy 's treason . The package contains film of the Allies winning World War II , which Juliana watches . She boards a bus to the Neutral Zone to deliver the film in Trudy 's place . A female agent on the bus attempts to steal the film but only escapes with decoys . While Joe befriends Juliana in Canon City , the Kempeitai , who want to know her destination , arrest Frank in San Francisco . Joe calls a Nazi commandant , Smith , revealing that he is working for them . `` Sunrise '' Daniel Percival Frank Spotnitz October 23 , 2015 ( 2015 - 10 - 23 ) In the Canon City diner , Juliana meets a man she assumes is her contact . Smith tells Joe that the contact is a Sicherheitsdienst ( SD ) agent trying to stop the resistance , and orders him not to intervene . However , when the SD agent tries to kill Juliana , Joe drives up , and she is able to throw the agent over the railing to his death . In New York , Smith is attacked by resistance fighters . In prison , Frank meets a resistance fighter who convinces him not to inform on Juliana . The Kempeitai kill Frank 's sister and her children , but do not kill him when the woman who stole Juliana 's bag is found with fake film reels . `` The Illustrated Woman '' Ken Olin Thomas Schnauz and Evan Wright November 20 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 20 ) Joe spots a Nazi bounty hunter in town , looking for the man Juliana killed . They go to dispose of his body and car , but find a map which leads them to a cave where they find a dead woman and list of names . They realize that Juliana 's boss from the diner was her actual contact . Frank breaks the news of his sister and her children 's deaths to his brother - in - law . Frank returns to work where he makes a real gun . The bounty hunter realizes Juliana 's identity and tries to kill her . `` Revelations '' Michael Rymer Thomas Schnauz and Jace Richdale November 20 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 20 ) Joe quickly saves Juliana from the Marshal . Joe and Juliana confront Lemuel who leads them into the woods , where they are surrounded by resistance fighters , who force them to give them the films and leave . Joe and Juliana are attacked again by the Marshal , causing Joe to reveal to the Marshal that he is a Nazi agent . The Marshal pursues Juliana on the highway . When Juliana gets far enough , she burns her car and hides . When the Marshal reaches the car , he assumes that she has died . Back in the Reich , SS Captain Connolly is suspected by Smith for telling the resistance members who attacked him , which route he was taking to work . In the Pacific States , Frank heads to the Crown Prince 's speech with a gun to assassinate him , but hesitates to do so . The Crown Prince is then shot by an unseen gunman . 5 5 `` The New Normal '' Bryan Spicer Rob Williams November 20 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 20 ) The Crown Prince is rushed to the hospital after the attack , and the captain of the Imperial Guard is ordered to commit seppuku , for not protecting the Crown Prince . Kido then states that if he can not find the gunman , he will do the same . Meanwhile , Juliana returns home to find an angry Frank , who alludes to his time in prison . Juliana visits her parents and learns the Japanese killed Frank 's sister and children . When she later reports to the Japanese military , she is interrogated and asked about Trudy 's partner Randall but is ultimately let go . She then visits Simone and meets an agent of the resistance who gives her a visitor 's card to the government building . Joe returns to New York from the Neutral Zone and is kidnapped by Gestapo agents and brought to Smith 's office . He is then forced to tell Smith what happened in Canon City . Smith tells Joe he has failed in his mission because the leader of the resistance escaped . Smith believes Joe is being truthful and invites him over for VA day ( Victory in America day ) . 6 6 `` Three Monkeys '' Nelson McCormick Rob Williams November 20 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 20 ) Joe celebrates VA day at Smith 's house . Juliana accepts a job working for Tagomi as she continues her search for answers . Smith , who has received intelligence about Wegener 's activities but also happens to be an old friend , intercepts him at the airport and invites him for dinner hoping to probe Wegener for answers . Smith has Wegener arrested . Smith catches Joe sneaking through his files . 7 7 `` Truth '' Brad Anderson Emma Frost November 20 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 20 ) Juliana makes a startling discovery about her sister 's death . Frank reflects on recent events and makes an important decision about his future , and Tagomi gains greater insight into Juliana 's past . Smith catches Joe in his home office and interrogates him about Juliana and Canon City . 8 8 `` End of the World '' Karyn Kusama Walon Green November 20 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 20 ) Juliana and Frank make plans to escape the Pacific States , only to be dragged back into danger by Joe as he tries to retrieve a new film , and walks directly into the Kempeitai 's ambush . Meanwhile , Smith 's loyalty is put to the ultimate test when confronted with a startling family discovery . The episode is named after the song of the same name , which is performed by Lini Evans during the episode with Japanese lyrics she co-wrote . 9 9 `` Kindness '' Michael Slovis Jace Richdale November 20 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 20 ) With time running out , a desperate Frank is forced to put his life on the line to help Joe . The pieces finally fall into place for Smith as he uncovers who was behind the assassination attempt . Tagomi is devastated when he is confronted with the consequences of his scheming , and Kido 's investigation takes a dramatic turn when he makes an important discovery . Meanwhile , Frank and Juliana , after taking possession of the new film , decide to watch it , but they are shocked to find out that the film describes , apparently in the near future , a nuclear - bombed San Francisco where the SS are rounding up and executing survivors ; Frank is shown being executed by Joe , who is wearing an SS uniform . 10 10 `` A Way Out '' Daniel Percival Rob Williams November 20 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 20 ) Frank and Juliana angrily confront Joe as a Nazi agent . He goes to the Nazi embassy with the film . Joe learns that Heydrich is preparing a trap . Kido acts on the information from the Yakuza and kills the Nazi sniper that shot the Crown Prince . Ed is caught with Frank 's gun and is used as a scapegoat for the attempted assassination of the Crown Prince , averting the need for Kido to commit seppuku . Heydrich demands Smith 's loyalty ahead of Wegener assassinating Hitler . Wegener says goodbye to his family and travels to Hitler 's alpine castle ( filmed at Hohenwerfen Castle ) , but after confronting Hitler ( who is watching the alternate newsreels in his huge film vault saying that he learns something every time he watches ) , kills himself instead . Smith captures the traitor Heydrich and reports such to Hitler . Joe evades Lem 's ambush and boards a boat to Mexico in Juliana 's place . Frank finds out that Ed has been arrested and returns to the Kempeitai headquarters to find him being detained . Tagomi goes to Union Square to meditate with Juliana 's charm and opens his eyes to find himself in an alternate 1962 where the Allies won World War II and America is in the midst of the Cuban Missile Crisis .