The founder of the Mughal empire , Babur , described his favourite type of garden as a charbagh . They use the term bāgh , baug , bageecha or bagicha for garden . This word developed a new meaning in India , as Babur explains ; India lacked the fast - flowing streams required for the Central Asian charbagh . The Agra garden , which was renamed after Partition of India as the Ram Bagh , since it lied in Hindu majority portion is thought to have been the first charbagh . India , Bangladesh and Pakistan have a number of Mughal gardens which differ from their Central Asian predecessors with respect to `` the highly disciplined geometry '' . An early textual references about Mughal gardens are found in the memoirs and biographies of the Mughal emperors , including those of Babur , Humayun and Akbar . Later references are found from `` the accounts of India '' written by various European travellers ( Bernier for example ) . The first serious historical study of Mughal gardens was written by Constance Villiers - Stuart , with the title Gardens of the Great Mughals ( 1913 ) . Her husband was a Colonel in Britain 's Indian army . This gave her a good network of contacts and an opportunity to travel . During their residence at Pinjore Gardens , Mrs. Villiers - Stuart also had an opportunity to direct the maintenance of an important Mughal garden . Her book makes reference to the forthcoming design of a garden in the Government House at New Delhi ( now known as Rashtrapati Bhavan ) . She was consulted by Edwin Lutyens , and this may have influenced his choice of Mughal style for this project . Recent scholarly work on the history of Mughal gardens has been carried out under the auspicious guidance of Dumbarton Oaks ( including Mughal Gardens : Sources , Places , Representations , and Prospects edited by James L. Wescoat , Jr. and Joachim Wolschke - Bulmahn ) and the Smithsonian Institution . Some examples of Mughal gardens are Shalimar Gardens ( Lahore ) , Lalbagh Fort at Dhaka , and Shalimar Bagh ( Srinagar ) .