Canada is officially bilingual under the Official Languages Act and the Constitution of Canada that require the federal government to deliver services in both official languages . As well , minority language rights are guaranteed where numbers warrant . 56.9 % of the population speak English as their first language while 22.9 % are native speakers of French . The remaining population belong to some of Canada 's many immigrant populations or to the indigenous population . See Bilingualism in Canada The Canadian province of New Brunswick , with a large Acadian population ( 33 % French - speaking ) is officially bilingual . The Canadian province of Quebec , ( 7.9 % English - speaking ) Note : Although there is a relatively sizable English - speaking population in Quebec , French is the only official language of the provincial government . At the same time , certain functions in education are foreseen for English , Amerindian languages and Inuktitut , certain functions in legislative activities and judiciary - for English . Many government services are available in English and French . There are also significant French language minorities in the provinces of Manitoba , Nova Scotia , Ontario and Prince Edward Island . Though these provinces are not officially bilingual they do provide a number of services in French , Ontario has a particular French Language Services Act and Manitoba -- a French Language Services Policy , as well as a special law on recognition of seven indigenous languages In Newfoundland and Labrador , in the autonomous area of Nunatsiavut , English and Inuttut are co-official Nunavut is a Canadian territory with a population that is 85 % Inuit . According to Official Languages Act , its official languages are Inuit , English and French . Northwest Territories have Chipewyan , Cree , English , French , Gwich'in , Inuinnaqtun , Inuktitut , Inuvialuktun , North Slavey , South Slavey and Tåîchô as the official languages Yukon allows the use of Yukon languages in its legislative assembly , along French and English In many of Canada 's First Nations ' communities in the more isolated regions , aboriginal languages are retained . English and French are accepted in the community at the community elders ' discretion . In the 2006 Canadian census , information and questions are available in sixty - two languages , including eighteen First Nations languages .