Johnny Galecki as Leonard Hofstadter : An experimental physicist with an IQ of 173 , who received his PhD when he was 24 years old . Leonard is a nerd who loves video games , comic books , and Dungeons & Dragons . Leonard is the straight man of the series , in which he shares an apartment in Pasadena , CA , with Sheldon . Leonard is smitten with his new neighbor Penny when they first meet , and they eventually marry . Jim Parsons as Sheldon Cooper : Originally from Galveston , Texas , Sheldon was a child prodigy with an eidetic memory who began college at the age of eleven , and earned a PhD at age sixteen . He is a theoretical physicist researching quantum mechanics and string theory , and despite his IQ of 187 , he finds many routine aspects of social situations difficult to grasp . He is determined to have his own way , continually boasts of his intelligence , and has an extremely ritualized way of living . Despite these quirks , he begins a relationship with Amy Farrah Fowler . Kaley Cuoco as Penny : An aspiring actress from Omaha , Nebraska . Penny moves in across the hall from Sheldon and Leonard . She waits and occasionally tends the bar at the Cheesecake Factory . After giving up hope of becoming a successful actress , Penny becomes a pharmaceutical sales representative . Penny becomes friends with Bernadette and Amy , and they often hang out in each other 's apartments . Penny and Leonard form a relationship and eventually marry . Simon Helberg as Howard Wolowitz : An aerospace engineer . Howard is Jewish and lives with his mother , Debbie ( Carol Ann Susi ) . Unlike Sheldon , Leonard , Raj , Bernadette and Amy , Howard does not hold a doctorate . He goes into space , training as an astronaut and serving as a payload specialist . Howard initially fancies himself a womanizer , but he later starts dating Bernadette , and they get engaged and married . Howard also has a tendency to waste money on toys and argues with Bernadette because of his oddly low income as an engineer and her high income as a pharmaceutical biochemist . Kunal Nayyar as Rajesh Koothrappali : A particle astrophysicist originally from New Delhi , India . Raj is initially unable to talk to women unless he drinks alcohol . Raj also has very feminine tastes and often takes on a stereotypical female role . Raj later dates Lucy ( Kate Micucci ) , who also suffers from social anxiety , but it eventually ends ; he later speaks to Penny without alcohol and thus overcomes his selective mutism . He begins dating Emily and their relationship later becomes exclusive . Raj also has a Yorkshire Terrier named Cinnamon .