No. in series No. in season English dub title / Original translated title Original Japanese title Original airdate English airdate 199 27 `` Tomb of the Nameless Pharaoh '' `` Ultimate Game '' ( 究極 の ゲーム ) April 7 , 2004 October 15 , 2005 Bakura tries to escape the returning spirit of the Millennium Ring , Yami Bakura . He eventually escapes into a church , where he believed he was safe . However , Yami Bakura 's dark spirit followed Bakura into the church , and began to taunt him while Bakura told him to stop . Yami Bakura then told Bakura that they still had to obtain all of the seven Millennium Items , and that they only had one at the moment - the Millennium Eye . When Bakura refuses to help , Yami Bakura forcibly takes over his mind and body , shattering all of the windows in the process while Bakura cries out in dismay . Yugi 's grandfather tells him the story of how he entered the tomb of the Nameless Pharaoh and discovered the Millennium Puzzle . Yugi prepares for his trip to Egypt in order to help restore the Pharaoh 's memories . Rex and Weevil return and steal Yugi 's bag containing the Egyptian God cards and the Millennium Items . However , their plans are thwarted when Yami Bakura shows up and reclaims the Millennium Ring . Then , he uses it to send both of their souls to the Shadow Realm . When Yugi shows up and asks if he was Bakura , Yami Bakura denies it , claiming that he himself was someone entirely different . 200 28 `` Spiritual Awakening '' `` The Dark Bakura on the Move '' ( 動きだし た 闇 の バクラ ) April 14 , 2004 October 22 , 2005 Yami Bakura returns Yugi 's belongings , minus the Millennium Ring , as he states that he still needs it , until Yugi obtains all seven of the Millennium Items . Then , he tries to persuade Yugi to help , using a combination of both facts and lies . However , Yugi refuses to trust him . Then , the Pharaoh tells Bakura to stop . Yami Bakura tells the Pharaoh that the only way to regain his memory is to play a game ( the Ultimate Shadow Game ) , before departing . Then , Yami Bakura kidnaps Mokuba and sends his soul to the Shadow Realm , which forces Kaiba to duel him . Yami Bakura turns the duel into a Shadow Game , and he tells Kaiba that if he wins , then he will return Mokuba 's soul . Planning to claim the great power of the Blue - Eyes White Dragon as his own , and to have Kaiba join `` The Ultimate Shadow Game '' , Bakura attacks using a new deck of Egyptian - themed cards , including his `` tablet '' trap cards , and his spirit beast , Diabound Kernel . Diabound is able to absorb half of the power of Blue - Eyes each time it activates its ability , even as Kaiba manages to fight back . However , as the Sun rises , Bakura abandons the duel , stating that he had other `` business '' to attend to . However , he leaves a parting gift for Kaiba - the Millennium Eye , and tells him to come to Egypt if he wants to learn about his ancient past . As Yugi was about to board a flight to Cairo , Egypt , he meets up with Tea , Joey , and Tristan as they refuse to let him leave on his own . 201 29 `` Memoirs of a Pharaoh '' `` The Door of Memory Opens '' ( 開 かれ た 記憶 の 扉 ) April 21 , 2004 October 29 , 2005 The Pharaoh , Yugi , Tea , Joey , and Tristan arrive in Egypt and meet up with Marik . The Pharaoh presents the Egyptian God cards to the stone tablet , and his spirit is sent five thousand years into the past , to when he was still alive and reigned as King of Egypt , even as Yami Bakura uses his connection to the Pharaoh 's Millennium Puzzle to hitch a ride back into the past , intending to finish the battle he started five millnenia ago . Yami Bakura 's departure into the past causes the spirits of Rex Raptor , Weevil Underwood , and Mokuba to be released from the Shadow Realm ( not shown on screen ) . Later , Yami Bakura completely takes over the body of his ancient alter ego , Bakura the Thief King , and then frees him from his guards . Soon , his minions arrive , and free him from his chains . Then , Thief King Bakura ( now under the control of Yami Bakura ) raids the previous Pharaoh 's tomb , and heads off to the royal palace to claim the seven Millennium Items . 202 30 `` The Intruder , Part 1 '' `` Thief King Bakura Enters ! '' ( 盗賊 王 バクラ 見参 ! ) April 28 , 2004 November 5 , 2005 Thief King Bakura , arrives at the palace to claim the Millennium Items for himself . The priests engage him in battle , but Bakura the Thief King 's spirit beast , Diabound , proves too much for them to handle , until the Pharaoh steps in and summons Obelisk the Tormentor . However , Obelisk happens to be evenly matched with Bakura 's Diabound , which is enhanced with power that it stole from Kaiba 's Blue - Eyes White Dragon , during Yami Bakura 's previous Duel with Seto Kaiba . Meanwhile , the spirits of Yugi and the others enter the Millennium Puzzle , thanks to the help of Shadi and his Millennium Key , in search of a doorway into the Pharaoh 's memories , which would take them to the memory world that the Pharaoh had entered . 203 31 `` The Intruder , Part 2 '' `` Mahado 's Decision '' ( マハード の 決意 ) May 5 , 2004 November 12 , 2005 Bakura 's Diabound fights against the Pharaoh 's Obelisk , but their power is equal , and Bakura is forced to retreat . Mana , a magician and also a childhood friend of the Pharaoh 's , arrives to visit the palace . Mahad decides to help protect the former Pharaoh 's tomb , despite Priest Isis ' visions of his fate . Mahad 's men take on Bakura 's minions , while Mahad is trapped with Bandit Bakura , inside of the Magician 's Academy ( inside of a cave ) . 204 32 `` Makings of a Magician '' `` Battle to the Death ! Mahad Vs. Bakura '' ( 死闘 ! マハード vs バクラ ) May 12 , 2004 November 19 , 2005 Mahad unlocks his full power using the Millennium Ring , and forces Bakura the Thief King to face him by trapping them both inside the academy where magicians used to be trained ( inside of a cavern ) . Mahad draws upon his Millennium Ring to completely unearth his full powers , which he had sealed away long ago , within the academy for his own safety . Mahad 's Illusion Magician faces off against Bakura 's Diabound , which has grown in strength since his battle with the Pharaoh . However , Mahad 's Illusion Magician has also grown in strength since then , but Bakura 's Diabound is still the strongest monster on the field . Diabound gains the upper hand , and Thief King Bakura finishes the job by deliberately setting off the tomb 's traps . To save himself , Mahad fuses his soul with his spirit beast , the Illusion Magician , transforming himself into the Dark Magician , which made him much more powerful than Bakura 's Diabound , much to Bakura 's disbelief . Bakura the Thief takes the Millennium Ring , however , Mahad as Dark Magician is able to destroy Bakura 's Diabound , which causes the cavern to collapse . Thief King Bakura barely manages to escape , while Mahad 's soul is sealed into the stone tablet meant for Diabound . 205 33 `` Birth of the Blue - Eyes '' `` Blue - Eyed Kisara '' ( 青い 瞳 の キサラ ) May 19 , 2004 November 26 , 2005 Mana is distraught at the loss of her master . Priest Isis explains that he has become the Dark Magician and will eventually return with even greater magical powers and spells than ever before . Priests Seto and Shada head out into the city to search for people with strong spirit beasts . Seto meets a white - haired , blue - eyed young girl named Kisara who is shunned by the citizens . Meanwhile , Shadi guides Yugi and the others to the doorway , into the Memory World of the Pharaoh 's past , and begin searching for the Pharaoh . 206 34 `` Village of Lost Souls '' `` The Secret of the Creation of the Millennium Items '' ( 千年 アイテム 誕生 の 秘密 ) May 26 , 2004 December 3 , 2005 Thief King Bakura breaks into the palace again and attacks Priest Aknadin , infusing part of his evil soul into the Millennium Eye . The Pharaoh summons Slifer the Sky Dragon to chase after Bakura and Diabound . When Bakura begins targeting the villagers , Slifer is forced to take Diabound 's attacks in order to defend the helpless people . The wounded Aknadin reminisces about the creation of the Millennium Items through the destruction of Kul Elna , and how he was forced to abandon his wife and his own son , Seto . 207 35 `` A Reversal of Fortune '' `` Wound Back Time '' ( 巻き 戻る 時間 ) June 2 , 2004 December 10 , 2005 Priest Seto and Karim arrive to defend the Pharaoh . Thief King Bakura pretends to retreat and leads them into a trap , giving him the chance to finally defeat Slifer . Yugi and the others appear just in time , giving the Pharaoh the strength he needs to summon the Winged Dragon of Ra . However , Yami Bakura uses Zorc 's immense dark power to turn back time , so he can make sure Yugi never shows up . The Pharaoh is defeated and Thief King Bakura takes the Millennium Puzzle , while the Pharaoh falls into the chasm . 208 36 `` In Search of a King '' `` The Pharaoh is Alive '' ( 生き てい た ファラオ ) June 9 , 2004 December 17 , 2005 Aknadin forces Kisara to fight the other prisoners in an attempt to force her to call forth her spirit beast . Despite Aknadin urging him not to , Seto steps in to protect Kisara , until she is finally able to summon the Blue - Eyes White Dragon . Meanwhile , Yugi and the gang search for the Pharaoh , who they firmly believe is still alive . During their search , they run into Mana , who decides to help them . They find the Pharaoh taking shelter in a cave , though he is badly injured . 209 37 `` Village of Vengeance , Part 1 '' `` Village of Dead Spirits '' ( 死霊 の 村 ) June 16 , 2004 January 7 , 2006 The priests meet up with the Pharaoh and the others , and together they track Thief King Bakura to Kul Elna , a ruined village haunted by the vengeful spirits of its former citizens . The Pharaoh heads in to face Bakura alone , but is soon joined by the spirit of Mahad , in the form of the Dark Magician . Bakura summons Diabound , newly evolved after its battle with Slifer , to combat him . Mana finally unlocks the great magical power of her spirit beast , the Dark Magician Girl , and rushes to their aid . 210 38 `` Village of Vengeance , Part 2 '' `` The End of Thief King Bakura '' ( 盗賊 王 バクラ の 最期 ) June 23 , 2004 January 14 , 2006 Mahad and Mana mount a counterattack on Diabound , but it absorbs the dead spirits of Kul Elna to make itself even more powerful . Seto and the rest of the priests arrive to fight him , but they are unable to penetrate Diabound 's spirit shield . Bakura takes the Millennium Scale from Karim and uses it to strengthen Diabound even more , by fusing another Shadow Creature ( Illushu ) with it . Shada locates Diabound 's stone tablet , and plans to destroy it to eliminate the beast . However , Aknadin attacks him and takes the Millennium Key . As Shada realizes Aknadin 's betrayal , he is dragged into Diabound 's tablet by the spirits of Kul Elna . The Pharaoh and his Guardians try to defeat Diabound , however , Diabound is protected by the souls of Kul Elna , and Diabound 's attacks overwhelm their monsters . As Diabound defeats the Sacred Guardians and the Pharaoh , the Pharaoh plans to surrender himself to the souls of Kul Elna . The angry spirits then enter the Pharoh 's body , planning to drag him into the Shadow Realm . At the last possible moment , the Pharaoh 's father , King Aknamkanon , intercepts the spirits and convince them to take his soul instead . However , Aknamkanon is much more powerful , and is able to trap the angry spirits within him . As a result , Shada is released from Diabound 's tablet . Then , King Aknamkanon leads the spirits to the Shadow Realm ( trapping himself there as well ) , after telling his son ( the Pharaoh ) to restore peace to Egypt . Bakura becomes enrages as the loss of the spirits weakens his Diabound . Mahad is finally able to defeat Diabound , with help from the Pharaoh . As Shada watches , Diabound 's tablet cracks and breaks into pieces . 211 39 `` Village of Vengeance , Part 3 '' `` A New Stage '' ( 新た なる ステージ ) June 30 , 2004 January 21 , 2006 Yugi and the others enter the palace to search for clues about the Pharaoh 's real name . Thief King Bakura collapses , but manages to place his three Millennium Items into the Millennium stone . Then , Yami Bakura releases Thief King Bakura from his control , who is confused about what was happening , and is unable to recall what he was doing . Then , he turns into dust , even as he cries out in anguish for help . Yami Bakura 's disembodied spirit then tells the others that he was merely using Bandit Bakura , the `` poor fool , '' as a pawn . Later , Aknadin betrays the other priests , using a time - freezing spell to incapacitate them , and takes the Millennium Items , giving him the power needed to resurrect the Zorc Necrophades , The Dark One , from the Millennium Stone . Zorc then transforms Aknadin into the Lord of Darkness , The Great Shadow Magus ( which doubles Aknadin 's power ) . Yami Bakura reveals the true nature of the Shadow Game - it is simply a board game , played by the present - day versions of Yami Bakura and the Pharaoh ( the other parts of their souls ) . However , their actions dictate the events of the Memory World , which are manipulated by their game pieces . 212 40 `` Village of Vengeance , Part 4 '' `` The Dark High Priest '' ( 闇 の 大 神官 ) July 7 , 2004 January 28 , 2006 Kaiba arrives in Egypt . Ishizu and Marik lead him to the stone tablet shrine , where the Millennium Eye begins glowing and shows his visions of Bakura and the Pharaoh 's Shadow Game . Yami Bakura pulls Kaiba 's soul into the game , and uses it to help resurrect the Thief King , and Yami Bakura retakes control of Thief King Bakura . Meanwhile , Bobasa guides Yugi and the others to the Valley of the Kings , where the Pharaoh 's true name lies within his future tomb . Then , Bobasa leaves , having fulfilled his duty . 213 41 `` Village of Vengeance , Part 5 '' `` The Countdown to the Evil God Revival '' ( 邪神 復活 へ の カウントダウン ) July 14 , 2004 February 4 , 2006 Thief King Bakura revives Diabound , stronger than ever thanks to the Millennium Items , which has now achieved its 5th and final form . Now , Thief King Bakura is able to summon Diabound without its tablet , because he now has all seven Millennium Items . The Millennium Stone then sinks deep into the ground , along with the seven items . Bandit Bakura then uses Diabound to allow Aknadin escape , who takes Priest Seto with him . To give Zorc Necrophades enough time to be fully reborn , he separates the Pharaoh and his priests from one another , and attacks them with armies of monsters while they are isolated . Karim sacrifices himself , in order to give his remaining power to Shada . Meanwhile Pharaoh heads back to the palace to find Priest Seto . 214 42 `` Name of the Game '' `` White Dragon '' ( 白き 龍 ) July 21 , 2004 April 1 , 2006 Seto and Kisara face Aknadin , however Kisara is killed while protecting Seto , and the White Dragon is sealed in stone . Meanwhile , Yugi and his friends brave many deadly traps , and then find the Pharaoh 's true name , within a room in the back . The Pharaoh makes it back to the palace , however he is forced to engage battle against Seto , since his mind was being manipulated by the evil Priest Aknadin . The legendary ancient match between the Pharaoh and Priest Seto begins . The Pharaoh summons Mahad , as Dark Magician , to fight against the Blue - Eyes White Dragon , now controlled by Priest Seto . The Pharaoh is eventually overpowered . However , the spirit of Kisara , in the form of the Blue - Eyes White Dragon , enters Seto 's mind , where she destroys Aknadin for good . As a result , Aknadin 's soul is sent to the Shadow Realm . However , the time on Yami Bakura 's 3rd hourglass runs out , and Zorc Necrophades begins to revive . At the same time , Yami Bakura takes full control of Tristan 's body , and blocks the only exit of the Pharaoh 's tomb . Telling Yugi that he will never leave the tomb alive , Yami Bakura challenges Yugi to a duel . 215 43 `` The Dark One Cometh , Part 1 '' `` The Great Evil God Zorc Revives '' ( 大 邪神 ゾーク 復活 ) July 28 , 2004 April 8 , 2006 Thief King Bakura succeeds in reviving Zorc Necrophades , sacrificing himself and his Diabound in the process , resulting in both him and Diabound being disintegrated , and then being absorbed into the Millennium Stone . As Zorc emerges from underneath Kul Elna , his energy destroys the Millennium Stone , causing the Millennium Items to scatter throughout Kul Elna . The Pharaoh and Priest Seto ride back to the palace and attempt to stop Zorc . Soon afterwards , Shada intercepts a lightning bolt meant for the Pharaoh ( sent by Zorc ) , which kills Shada . Meanwhile , Yugi and Yami Bakura duel ( possessing the body of Tristan ) . If Yugi wins , he can leave and tell the Pharaoh his true name , and if he loses , he 'll never leave , and he will lose his soul to the Shadow Realm , along with the souls of his friends . 216 44 `` The Dark One Cometh , Part 2 '' `` The Legendary Guardian God - Exodia Revives ! '' ( 伝説 の 守護神 エクゾディア 復活 ! ) August 4 , 2004 April 15 , 2006 Isis and Mana head for Kul Elna to retrieve the Millennium Items . Isis uses her Millennium Necklace to strengthen her Winged Guardian of the Fortress , in order to distract Zorc . However , Zorc Necrophades destroys Isis 's dragon , and the amount of damage she takes causes her to die . Once Mana delivers the Millennium Items to Shimon , he summons Exodia ( with the Millennium Key ) , which holds its own against Zorc . Zorc eventually overpowers it , since Exodia drew its power from a mortal , Shimon , while Zorc had an almost infinite supply of darkness . Zorc the Dark One then destroys Exodia , killing Shimon . Mana delivers the other Millennium Items to the Pharaoh , and the Pharaoh prepares to fight Zorc . The duel between Yugi and Yami Bakura continues , but suddenly , Yami Bakura 's voice changes and he calls Yugi a `` pathetic mortal '' , which strikes Téa as strange . 217 45 `` The Dark One Cometh , Part 3 '' `` Summon ! The Three Gods '' ( 召喚 ! 三 幻 神 ) August 11 , 2004 April 22 , 2006 The Pharaoh summons the Three Egyptian Gods to combat Zorc . Then , as if to confirm Téa 's suspicions last episode , at the tabletop in the Shadow Realm , Yami Bakura claims that soon he 'll return to his original form , and then he leaves the table to join with his 5,000 - year - old counterpart , which is Zorc . At the same time , he sends the present - day Pharaoh to the battlefield to reunite his past self , and the other part of his soul . Meanwhile , Zorc defeats the three Egyptian Gods by covering the Sun , wiping their strength out , as they get their power from the Sun . Zorc then turns the Egyptian Gods into motionless statues of stone . While this is going on , Yami Bakura 's devious deck destruction strategy drives Yugi into a corner , but , remembering that the Pharaoh , Joey and Téa are all counting on him , he continues the duel and draws the one card that can turn the tables . 218 46 `` The Dark One Cometh , Part 4 '' `` Zorc Vs. Blue Eyes Ultimate Dragon '' ( ゾーク vs 青眼 の 究極 竜 ) August 18 , 2004 April 29 , 2006 Mana takes the Pharaoh back to the palace while Seto summons Blue - Eyes White Dragon to combat Zorc . Blue - Eyes White Dragon stops the solar eclipse , but is defeated by Zorc , which turns both Priest Seto and the Millennium Rod to stone . Kaiba takes over and summons Blue - Eyes Ultimate Dragon , which is equal to power of Zorc . Meanwhile , Yugi successfully defeats Yami Bakura with Gandora , the Dragon of Destruction . But this allows the spirit of Yami Bakura to fully reunite with his original body , Zorc itself , which earlier Yami Bakura had told the Pharaoh that both he and Zorc were `` one and the same . '' The Pharaoh becomes Black Luster Soldier , and fuses with Blue - Eyes Ultimate Dragon , becoming Master of Dragon Knight . But the Master of Dragon Knight is destroyed by its own attack during the battle against Zorc , and the Pharaoh is seemingly defeated , but Yugi and his friends fly to him . 219 47 `` In the Name of the Pharaoh ! '' `` In the Name of the Pharaoh ! ! '' ( 王 の 名 の も と に ! ! ) August 25 , 2004 May 6 , 2006 The Pharaoh continues his battle between Zorc in the Memory World . Yugi , Joey , and others summon monsters , such as the Dark Magician , to help the Pharaoh . The ancient characters can not be read but Yugi is going to reveal the Pharaoh 's true name . Tea then remembers the cartouche pendant and passes it to the Pharaoh . The Pharaoh regained his true name , `` Atem '' , the keyword which allowed him to summon the three Egyptian Gods and fuse them together to form the Creator of Light , Horakhty . ( Horakhty is a level 12 , warrior - type Divine - God attribute monster , with infinite attack and defense points . ) The Pharaoh then attacks Zorc directly with Horakhty 's Shining Light Attack , which results in Zorc being destroyed forever . Later , the Pharaoh entrusts the Millennium Items to Priest Seto ( his soul was released from the Shadow Realm ) and makes him the next Pharaoh of Egypt . Then , Pharaoh Atem 's body dissolves ( since his role in the past was over ) , even as Priest Seto promises to rule Egypt justly . Afterwards , Atem and his friends leave the Memory World of the past .