Elisabeth Moss as June Osborne / Offred , a woman who was captured attempting to flee the country with her husband Luke and daughter Hannah . Due to her fertility she becomes a handmaid to Commander Fred Waterford and his wife , Serena Joy , and is named `` Offred '' . Joseph Fiennes as Commander Fred Waterford , a high - ranking government official and June 's master . Both he and his wife played an instrumental role in Gilead 's founding . He wishes to connect with June outside of what Gilead dictates is lawful between a handmaid and her master , and starts inviting her to nightly games of Scrabble . Yvonne Strahovski as Serena Joy Waterford , Fred 's wife and a former conservative cultural activist who appears to have accepted her new limited role in a society she helped create . She is poised and deeply religious , but capable of great cruelty and is often callous in her treatment of June . She is desperate to become a mother . Alexis Bledel as Emily / Ofglen , June 's shopping partner . Although June is initially wary of her , it is revealed she is not as pious as she seems and the two become friends . She had a wife and son , and was a university lecturer in cellular biology . Being homosexual is punishable by death under Gilead and most university professors are sent to labor camps , but she was spared due to her fertility . She is later captured and punished for her relationship with a Martha , and is sent to another household where she becomes `` Ofsteven '' . She is involved with a resistance movement called `` Mayday '' . Madeline Brewer as Janine / Ofwarren , a handmaid who entered the Red Center for training at the same time as June , and considers June a friend due to her kind treatment . Initially non-compliant , her right eye is removed as a punishment . She becomes mentally unstable due to her treatment , and often behaves in temperamental or childlike ways . She gives birth to a child for Warren and Naomi Putnam ; they name her `` Angela '' but Janine insists that her name is `` Charlotte '' . She is later reassigned and becomes `` Ofdaniel '' . Ann Dowd as Aunt Lydia , a woman in charge of overseeing the handmaids in their education and duty . She is brutal and subjects insubordinate handmaids to harsh physical punishment , but also cares for the handmaids and believes deeply in their mission and the Gilead doctrine . She appears to have a soft spot for Janine , even going so far as to address her by her given name on occasion . O.T. Fagbenle as Luke Bankole , June 's husband from before Gilead . As June is his second wife , their union is considered invalid in the new society and Hannah is considered illegitimate . Initially June believes him to have been killed , but it is later revealed that he managed to escape to Canada . Max Minghella as Nick Blaine , Commander Waterford 's driver and a former drifter from Michigan who has feelings for June . June and Nick develop an intimate relationship , and she eventually discovers that he is an Eye , a spy for Gilead . Samira Wiley as Moira , June 's best friend since college . She is already at the Red Center when June enters handmaid training ; but is able to escape before being assigned to a home . She is recaptured and becomes `` Ruby '' , a Jezebel . She seems to have given up hope of ever being free , but upon meeting June again regains the conviction to attempt another escape . Amanda Brugel as Rita , a Martha at the Waterford home . She once had a son who died fighting in the civil war when he was nineteen years old .