No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Featured character ( s ) Original release date `` I Was n't Ready '' Michael Trim Liz Friedman & Jenji Kohan Piper July 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 11 ) Sentenced to 15 months for a crime committed 10 years earlier , Piper Chapman leaves her supportive fiancé Larry for her new home : a women 's prison . Her counselor , Sam Healy , empathizes with her and tries to gently give her tips to survive . She grapples with the racial dynamics of prison life and learns some of the rules . Unfortunately , she offends Red , the powerful matriarch of the prison kitchen , who responds by serving Piper a bloody tampon and subsequently starving her . Piper is then shocked to discover that Alex Vause , her former lover ( who recruited her into carrying drug money ) is in the same prison . Daya Diaz , another inmate , is greeted by her mother , who is also incarcerated , with a slap to the face . Flashback : Flashbacks depict the particulars of Piper 's crime , Piper telling her family about her crime , and Larry 's marriage proposal . `` Tit Punch '' Uta Briesewitz Marco Ramirez Red & Piper July 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 11 ) After insulting Red 's food , Piper is starved out by the kitchen staff . She struggles to offer up an acceptable apology . With help from Suzanne `` Crazy Eyes '' Warren , she manages to prepare a medicated lotion for Red 's back . Alex gives Piper a piece of cornbread but Piper rejects it . The kitchen freezer is irreparably damaged . Red manipulates Healy into buying a new one . `` Crazy Eyes '' makes a romantic move on Piper . Bennett and Daya check each other out . Flashback : Red attempts to befriend the wives of well - connected Russian businessmen in Brooklyn . Unfortunately , she tells an insulting joke that alienates them . During a confrontation , Red punctures one of the wives ' breast implants . As compensation , Red 's husband agrees to hold secret packages for the businessmen . `` Lesbian Request Denied '' Jodie Foster Sian Heder Sophia & Piper July 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 11 ) Piper 's best friend Polly takes more authority over their soap - making business . Piper deals with romantic advances from Suzanne ( Crazy Eyes ) . After Crazy Eyes submits a request to bunk with Piper , Piper firmly rejects her advances . After Piper moves into Miss Claudette 's cube , Crazy Eyes urinates on the floor of their space . Piper 's relationship with Alex is very hostile . The prison reduces Sophia 's dose of exogenous estrogen in response to budget cuts . She asks her wife to smuggle pills into the prison ; her wife flatly refuses , asking her `` How fucking selfish can you be ? '' Flashback : Sophia , her wife , and her child struggle to adjust to Sophia 's gender transition . Sophia commits credit card fraud to finance her gender reassignment surgery . `` Imaginary Enemies '' Michael Trim Gary Lennon Miss Claudette July 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 11 ) Piper adjusts to living with Claudette and working in the electrical shop . She starts to make friends with Nicky . After Piper loses a screwdriver , the prison staff searches high and low to find it before it is used as a weapon . Mendez molests Piper during the search . When Piper returns to her cube with the screwdriver , it places more strain on her relationship with Claudette . After the search ends , Piper and Claudette make peace . Piper agrees to review appeal letters from different inmates . Tricia Miller schemes to prevent her girlfriend Mercy Valduto 's release , but Claudette convinces her not to ruin Mercy 's chance for freedom . After Claudette receives a letter from her friend Baptiste , she agrees to have her case reopened . Flashback : Miss Claudette ran a housekeeping company until she murdered a man who sexually assaulted one of her employees . 5 5 `` The Chickening '' Andrew McCarthy Nick Jones Aleida & Daya July 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 11 ) While relaxing in the exercise yard , Piper sees a chicken . When she mentions it in passing , Red recounts her dream of cooking a proper chicken and offers a gift to the person who catches the chicken . Larry discovers that Alex gave Piper 's name to the Feds . To keep Piper focused on life beyond prison , Larry lies to her . Polly arranges for Piper to take a business call , but Piper skips it to chase the chicken . Morello ends her relationship with Nicky . Sophia asks Sister Ingalls for estrogen pills , but she refuses . The overloaded chapel ceiling collapses from a heavy cross Pennsatucky tries to hang . The prisoners work to clean up and repair the damage . Miss Claudette starts researching her legal appeal . Bennett and Daya pass notes to each other . Aleida advises her daughter to date another guard who can do her favors . Flashback : Aleida runs a drug ring with her boyfriend , César , while the family struggles financially . After Aleida goes to prison , Daya starts dating César and running the drug ring until she is also sent to prison . 6 6 `` WAC Pack '' Michael Trim Lauren Morelli Nicky & Piper July 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 11 ) Piper confronts her mother . Polly takes full control of the soap business . Now believing that Alex did n't name her , Piper starts to view her fondly . Larry agrees to write an article about his fiancée 's term in prison . Healy announces elections for the women 's advisory council , and encourages Piper to run for WAC . When she refuses , Healy places her on the council anyway . The guards start searching for a missing mobile phone ; Piper finds it hidden in the wall of the bathroom . Daya attacks her mother Aleida , for trying to have sex with Bennett . After saying he turned Aleida down , Daya performs oral sex on him , during which she discovers that he has a prosthetic leg . Flashback : Flashbacks depict the friction between Nicky and her biological mother , and how Red helped Nicky deal with her drug problem . 7 7 `` Blood Donut '' Matthew Penn Sara Hess Watson July 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 11 ) Watson is released from SHU ( Security Housing Unit / Solitary ) , and concludes that it was Piper who misplaced the screwdriver . Piper confesses but points out that Watson was initially sent to SHU for arguing with the guards . Piper , frustrated with WAC , states `` this whole WAC thing is basically bullshit . '' Piper tries to make nice with Alex . With Fischer 's help , Piper gets the running track reopened , which pleases Watson . Piper 's appointment to WAC infuriates Pennsatucky , who was hoping to use her election to obtain false teeth . Alex tires of Pennsatucky 's complaining and threatens to rape her if she does n't keep quiet . Mendez tries to pressure Red into smuggling drugs into the prison , but Red refuses . Flashback : Watson was a gifted track star with a college scholarship . Growing up in a strict Muslim household , she was not allowed to see boys . She begins seeing a sketchy man , Donte . She helps him rob a convenience store , and they are separated as they escape . She is caught by police but he is not , and she takes the rap for him . 8 8 `` Moscow Mule '' Phil Abraham Marco Ramirez Red July 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 11 ) The flu bug circulates through the prison . Larry 's article is printed . While Piper is happy that it was published , she is upset that most of the information is inaccurate . Healy reads the article and begins acting coldly towards Piper upon realizing her history with other girls . Piper and Alex flirt and reminisce while they try to fix a dryer . Pennsatucky locks Alex into the dryer . Polly gives birth . Daya is pregnant . Taystee is granted parole . Tricia goes into drug withdrawal . Over Nicky 's objection , Red cuts off Tricia and allows her to go into SHU . Caputo orders Mendez to investigate how the drugs entered the prison . Mendez performs a very intimidating interview of Morello . To retaliate against Red , Nicky tells Mendez that Red uses Neptune 's Produce , a vendor affiliated with the Russian bosses from Red 's background , to smuggle contraband into the prison . Flashback : Red gives the Russian bosses a good business idea , which begins her climb up the organized crime ladder . 9 9 `` Fucksgiving '' Michael Trim Sian Heder Alex July 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 11 ) Mendez uses Red 's smuggling connections to move drugs into the prison . Red flushes them down the toilet . Mendez issues Red a death threat and urinates into the Thanksgiving gravy . Pennsatucky and Alex clash over their views on homosexuality and religion . Nicky and Alex flirt . Sophia 's wife becomes romantically interested in her pastor . With Sister Ingalls 's encouragement , Sophia gives her wife her blessing . Sophia 's full dose of estrogen is restored . Daya attempts an abortion using Mendoza 's herbal teas , but Aleida colludes with Mendoza to keep the fetus alive . Later , Daya agrees to keep the baby . Taystee is released but finds that her support network is missing . Piper and Alex share a sexually charged dance . Pennsatucky snitches on them for `` lesbianing together , '' after which Healy sends Chapman to SHU . When Healy visits SHU , Chapman rages against him for punishing her for being a lesbian . After suffering in SHU , she resolves to obey Healy and avoid Alex . Caputo orders Healy to release Chapman from SHU when it becomes clear that her transfer is unjustified . Healy calls Larry , to tell him about Piper and Alex 's sexual relationship . Upon returning to camp , she has sex with Alex . Flashback : Flashbacks depict Alex being bullied for her low socioeconomic standing , her relationship with her mother , and her first contact with her washed - up rock star father . The flashbacks also show her beginning with the drug cartel . 10 10 `` Bora Bora Bora '' Andrew McCarthy Nick Jones Piper & Tricia July 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 11 ) When Cesar goes by Bennett 's apartment and asks how and where the baby will live , Bennett learns that Daya is pregnant . He is concerned that the system will discover he had sex with Daya , which could result in disciplinary action for both . He explains that his prosthetic left leg , originally thought to be from his tour in Afghanistan , is really from an infection when he had a cut and stepped into a dirty hot tub in Florida . Baptiste visits Miss Claudette . Tricked by Watson and egged on by others , Pennsatucky starts a faith healing crusade . Scared straight arrives at the prison , and the inmates attempt to intimidate the visiting juvenile delinquents . However , they have difficulty intimidating Dina , who robbed a liquor store from her wheelchair . Piper succeeds by telling Dina the scariest part of prison is not other people but coming face to face with `` who you really are . '' Pennsatucky 's faith healing crusade ends after she attempts to heal Dina by forcefully removing her from the wheelchair , after which Pennsatucky is confined to the psychiatric ward . Tricia struggles to `` make things square with Red . '' Mendez manipulates Tricia into selling illegal drugs . When the tour with juvenile delinquents begins , Mendez notices the state she is in , and locks Tricia in a closet to prevent her from revealing she is holding the drugs . When he returns to release her , he finds that she has taken the drugs , overdosed and died . Fearing he will be found out , Mendez manipulates the scene to make it look like a suicide hanging . Nicky and Red blame themselves for Tricia 's death , and both resolve to bring Mendez down . Flashback : Flashbacks reveal what Piper and Polly are looking for in a spouse , and depict Piper meeting Larry . Tricia survives life on the streets of New York City shoplifting ; she keeps a list of what she steals so she can pay everyone back . 11 11 `` Tall Men with Feelings '' Constantine Makris Lauren Morelli Piper & Alex July 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 11 ) Prison officials cover up Tricia 's death to avoid an investigation . The inmates believe Tricia killed herself and organize an informal memorial for her . Tricia 's death affects Mendez , and he vents over drinks with Bennett . Aleida , Daya , and Red scheme to cover up Daya 's pregnancy . Daya will have sex with Mendez , which will then deflect suspicions once her pregnancy becomes apparent . During their encounter , Mendez uses a condom , so there 's no evidence to use against him . Pennsatucky is held in the psych unit . After Piper learns that psych is worse than SHU , she successfully petitions Caputo to have Pennsatucky returned to the general population over Alex 's objections . However , Piper 's bravery brings Alex closer to her . Larry is interviewed on NPR , and his comments are particularly hurtful toward Suzanne and Miss Claudette , though he is kinder to other inmates , including Red and Watson . Larry 's comments regarding fidelity convince Piper that he knows about her relationship with Alex. Piper calls Larry and confesses her infidelity . Larry reveals that during Thanksgiving , Healy told him that she was put in SHU for `` lesbian activity . '' Piper admits to Larry that she loves Alex , which Larry sees as a deep betrayal . Larry then tells Piper that Alex did name her , thereby admitting that he lied earlier . He asks Piper , `` How does it feel to be in love with the woman who ruined our lives ? '' , and says that he needs time away from Piper . Flashback : Flashbacks depict the fight and breakup between Piper and Alex following the death of Alex 's mother . 12 12 `` Fool Me Once '' Andrew McCarthy Sara Hess Pennsatucky July 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 11 ) Caputo catches Mendez having sex with Daya . To avoid a rape investigation , Mendez is put on unpaid leave . Daya tells Bennett about her plot , but Bennett is displeased that she framed Mendez . Mendez believes that Daya loves him , and he tells Bennett about Red 's smuggling operation , after which Bennett informs Caputo . Claudette 's appeal is denied , and she attacks Fischer , resulting in her being sent to maximum security . Unable to adjust to life outside , Taystee commits a crime and returns to prison . Cal gets engaged via text message . Red mediates between Healy and his mail - order bride . Yoga Jones tells Watson how she accidentally killed an eight - year - old child . A journalist following up on Larry 's interview asks the deputy warden about spending cuts at Litchfield , despite an increase in the prison 's funding . Piper and Alex argue , and Piper admits , `` I am an emotionally manipulative narcissist who bailed on you when your mother died . '' Alex admits she ratted on Piper for dumping her , and lied to Piper because she wanted her to like her . Alex gives Piper a choice : nest with Larry or travel with her and be prepared for anything . Larry asks Piper to marry him immediately . Pennsatucky broods after being `` beaten '' by Piper , but her lawyer encourages Pennsatucky to witness to Piper . Piper `` prays to Mr. Christ '' for forgiveness , but she flatly refuses to be baptized . Pennsatucky sees this refusal as another instance of being `` disrespected '' and announces her plans to murder Piper . Flashback : Pennsatucky shoots and kills an abortion provider who `` disrespected '' her with a snide remark after her fifth abortion . A Christian anti-abortion group , mistakenly believing her act was to stop abortions , declare her a hero for their movement and provide her with pro bono legal help . The flashbacks also imply that Pennsatucky was not particularly religious until that experience . 13 13 `` Ca n't Fix Crazy '' Michael Trim Tara Herrmann & Jenji Kohan none July 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 11 ) Caputo chooses Mendoza to replace Red as head cook . To reclaim her position , Red sabotages the kitchen . The resulting grease fire injures Murphy and prompts Norma to end her friendship with Red . Mendoza starts starving Red . Figueroa leans on Bennett to squash the investigation into Neptune 's Produce , but Caputo fights to keep it on track . Bennett and Daya reach a low point in their relationship . Sophia receives a card from her son . Piper tells Alex that she is choosing Larry , and Alex cuts Piper out of her life . Larry visits Alex in prison and warns her to stay away from Piper , but Alex tells him that it was Piper who rekindled their sexual relationship . She asserts Larry 's insecurity stems from Piper 's weaknesses and not her machinations , telling him `` I 'm not your problem . '' After reflecting , Larry breaks up with Piper . Piper returns to Alex , but Alex pushes Piper away . Nicky seduces Alex. Piper is terrified after Pennsatucky demonstrates on herself how she could harm Piper in the shower with a razor blade . Taystee and her friends encourage Piper to strike back , and Big Boo gives Piper the screwdriver that was never returned to the electrical shop . Following the success of the Nativity Play at the Prison Christmas Pageant , Piper breaks into tears and leaves during the final song . Pennsatucky sneaks off the stage in her angel costume to follow Piper . Piper and Pennsatucky have a final confrontation . At the fight 's start , Piper appeals to Healy for help , but he walks off and abandons her . When Pennsatucky charges at Piper with a shiv fashioned from a wooden Christian cross , Piper doubles her over with a kick to the groin , then drops her to the ground with an elbow to the head . The episode ends with an enraged Piper on top of Pennsatucky , relentlessly punching her .