I am not insensitive to the fact that much of what is written is not backed up by any references . I have come to this article by accident and found numerous inaccuracies in the English History section . I have tried to correct them and have provided references to primary sources when clearly so many American authors have been relying on some very dubious secondary sources . You do have the fortune of having lawyers on the Supreme Court who do look carefully at the historical background and I have to say that they have the same opinion as me and have ignored to some extend the claims made by certain American authors . I am not being `` anti - '' anyone here ; I am just pointing out the facts . Nor am I trying to insert my POV into the article . I do think that most editors here are interested in the issues of law and its drivers . Take for example the point about the issue of the recent cases in the Supreme Court . Most commentators have noted that these were landmark decisions and marked a significant shift . I do n't think it unreasonable to point out that changing that view can only happen by another Supreme Court decision the other way or a by a constitutional amendment . This is a big divergence from previous law and very different from English law which , by and large , does not grant people `` rights '' as there is usually a balance of rights that needs to be struck . It would be great to have a citation for these things but the absence of a citation does not mean that the statements are incorrect . If there are statement that you think are incorrect , I 'll welcome any discussion here to try and get to a consensus. -- Hauskalainen ( talk ) 01 : 24 , 13 December 2010 ( UTC ) Unfortunately , that 's simply not how it works at Wikipedia . Even assuming a statement is correct , if it 's not verified by a reliable source , it must be removed. -- Bbb23 ( talk ) 01 : 43 , 13 December 2010 ( UTC ) Have removed the uncited political commentary of Hauskalainen . This is not how Wikipedia works . Yaf ( talk ) 02 : 41 , 13 December 2010 ( UTC ) How so ? Political ? The text is surely pointing out the facts to those who may not be aware of them . I am willing to be flexible about the form of the wording , but the facts are I believe as I have stated them . What of the content do you find `` political '' ? ( by which I presume POV ) . If there are references missing for factual statements it would be more helpful if you would tell us which statements you regard as suspicious . Deleting great chunks of text on a pretext is not very constructive . Please engage. -- Hauskalainen ( talk ) 19 : 19 , 13 December 2010 ( UTC )