No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) `` Pilot '' Michael Lembeck Dan Berendsen June 20 , 2012 ( 2012 - 06 - 20 ) 1001 1.65 Ben Wheeler ( Jean - Luc Bilodeau ) , a flair bartender in his 20s becomes surprised when Emma , a three - month - old baby girl , is left on his apartment doorstep by Angela , his ex-girlfriend . He takes care of Emma , with help from his mother Bonnie ( Melissa Peterman ) , his roommate Tucker ( Tahj Mowry ) , his best friend Riley ( Chelsea Kane ) , and his brother Danny ( Derek Theler ) . When Angela returns , she leaves Ben adoption papers for Emma , which she has already signed and hopes that Ben will do the same . This means Emma would be put up for adoption . However , Ben decides to keep Emma and raise her . `` I Told You So '' Michael Lembeck Dan Berendsen June 27 , 2012 ( 2012 - 06 - 27 ) 1002 1.72 Bonnie is worried that the guys ca n't handle taking care of Emma . Ben , wanting to avoid his mother 's `` I told you so '' and prove he can handle taking care of Emma , acts as though he has everything under control . However , in a series of mishaps , Emma ends up accidentally being left alone in the guys ' apartment . Ben , feeling his first parental gut - wrenching scare that he could have lost his child , with help from Bonnie , he realizes he needs to get his act together to really become a good parent to Emma . `` The Nurse and the Curse '' Michael Lembeck Heidi Clements July 11 , 2012 ( 2012 - 07 - 11 ) 1003 1.44 Ben and Tucker take Emma to her first doctor 's appointment , and Ben ends up asking her nurse , Cassie ( Briana Lane ) , out on a date , and she accepts . Riley is jealous of Ben 's new relationship with Cassie , but tries to befriend her respecting Ben 's request . Meanwhile , Danny has his first hockey game with the New York Rangers and he 's very superstitious - he wears an old high school jersey that has never been washed to every game and Bonnie caters to his every ritual because she wants Danny to win his first game . While doing laundry , Tucker accidentally washes Danny 's lucky jersey and it shrinks down to a tattered mess which devastates Danny . At the game , Cassie tells Riley she knows she likes Ben and directly insults her , saying Ben will only ever see her as `` Fat Pants '' . This causes Riley to fight with her , which is featured on the jumbotron . Ben breaks up with Cassie , because she thinks that Riley likes him , which Riley denies . With Danny 's old jersey shrunken , Tucker puts it on Emma and Danny calls her his new good luck charm . `` Guys , Interrupted '' Michael Lembeck Nancy Cohen July 18 , 2012 ( 2012 - 07 - 18 ) 1004 1.10 The guys appreciate all of Bonnie 's help , but she becomes a little too overwhelming for them . Ben looks forward to his time with Emma when he 's not working , but with Bonnie always jumping in to take care of her , he 's starting to miss the time he is supposed to have with Emma . Meanwhile , Riley has a new study partner , Jack ( David Cade ) , who Danny seems jealous of , but Ben encourages her to date him . The guys try to hide from Bonnie by heading over to Riley 's apartment , which ends up sabotaging her date with Jack . After Bonnie finds out that the boys do n't want her around , she makes Ben tell her how she really feels , which upsets her . However , Ben tells her that she is still important and her help is still needed , but she just needs to give the boys some space . Bonnie agrees to this , and they reconcile . 5 5 `` Married to the Job '' Michael Lembeck Lester Lewis July 25 , 2012 ( 2012 - 07 - 25 ) 1005 1.39 A baby shower is thrown at the boys ' apartment for Emma and Bonnie gets her a girly stroller , which the guys quickly return in exchange for a much cooler stroller that attracts women . Ben finds out that there is a new position opening up at the bar as a manager , but his boss does n't think that he is responsible enough for the position . However , when he sees Riley with Emma , he reconsiders , since he now thinks that Ben is a family man . Riley goes along with it and all goes well until Ben meets his boss ' daughter at the meeting , who is the same girl that he had previously gotten a number from earlier before . Meanwhile , Danny and Tucker compete to see who can get the most phone numbers from random girls on the street with the help of the stroller , as Bonnie chases them around , looking to get the girly stroller back . Danny finally admits to Riley that he loves her , but she takes it as an act to get her out of the situation with Ben , so she goes along with it and thanks him . On her way to return the stroller that the boys bought , Bonnie grabs the attention of a man on the street and begins using it like the boys did . 6 6 `` Take Her Out of the Ballgame '' Arlene Sanford Mark Amato August 1 , 2012 ( 2012 - 08 - 01 ) 1006 1.10 Riley is voted into Ben 's position as team captain of his and Tucker 's softball team . Tucker is tired of losing and when Riley jumps in to help them , he is excited until her competitive spirit comes out and pushes the team to the limit . Bonnie brings boxes filled with Ben and Danny 's childhood accomplishments into the boys ' apartment . Meanwhile , Bonnie begins dating Danny 's hockey coach , Hank ( Tuc Watkins ) , which upsets Danny . Riley 's new position as the softball team 's new captain upsets Ben . After Riley pushes the team too hard , they vote Ben captain again , but he has to be the one who fires Riley . Once Danny finally accepts Hank dating Bonnie , Hank says that Bonnie is n't his type and does n't want to date her , Danny gets upset and tells him that he would be lucky to have his mom . Riley and Ben become co-captains and the team celebrates a winning streak . Danny , now ready for Bonnie to begin dating , tries to set her up with any man he can find . 7 7 `` May the Best Friend Win '' Michael Lembeck Kirill Baru & Eric Zimmerman August 8 , 2012 ( 2012 - 08 - 08 ) 1007 1.12 Ben and Tucker put their friendship aside when they compete for the heart of Ava ( Ashley Argota ) , a beautiful , young woman they both met at a concert . Danny tries to keep them together , telling them that going against each other for a girl will ruin their friendship . Bonnie creates an online dating profile . Danny is asked to give a speech at a press conference in front of his team , but is nervous , so Riley offers to help him . Danny reveals to Bonnie that he has feelings for Riley . Ben and Tucker retaliate against each other to try to keep each other away from Ava . Both end up on the same date with Ava at club , so they have a dance battle which weirds Ava out . She ends up leaving , but before she can Ben and Tucker confront her making her choose between them , and Ava chooses Tucker . At Danny 's press conference , Ben shows up mad at Tucker saying that he did n't invite him to the conference like Danny asked , which made Danny mad . While lecturing Ben about how he and Tucker should n't be fighting because they 're like teammates , he gives an accidental speech , which everyone there loves . While celebrating his great speech , Danny accidentally kisses Riley , turning the situation awkward . Ben goes back to the apartment and apologizes to Tucker for being a bad friend , and Tucker forgives him saying that he did n't want Ava anymore because was too talkative , so they push her off an Danny . 8 8 `` The Daddy Whisper '' Michael Lembeck Heidi Clements August 15 , 2012 ( 2012 - 08 - 15 ) 1008 1.32 Ben signs him and Emma up for their first Mommy and Me class . Tucker and Danny plan to watch a huge wrestling event with Ben in the apartment , until Ben brings Izzy ( Amber Stevens ) , a mom who knows a lot about babies and is referred to as `` The Mommy Whisperer '' , to discuss ways to baby proof the apartment . Leaving Tucker and Danny needing to find a place to watch the match . Riley gets a job as an intern at a law firm . Bonnie takes Emma and Riley shopping for clothes for Riley to wear at her firm , and they end up getting arrested when Emma accidentally takes a gold watch out of a store . Tucker and Danny watch the wrestling match in an old laundry room in their building and call it their `` man cave '' . Ben checks on the match down in the laundry room and accidentally locks him , along with Tucker and Danny , in the laundry room leaving Izzy in the apartment alone . Bonnie and Riley find Izzy in the apartment and tell her that not everything needs to be perfect when it comes to raising a child , making Izzy admit that having a baby is tiring and hard . They eventually hear the boys yelling through the air vents for help and go down to save them . Then , Izzy , Ben , Danny , Riley watch the remainder of the match leaving Tucker stuck in the air vents . 9 9 `` A Wheeler Christmas Outing '' Michael Lembeck Lester Lewis August 22 , 2012 ( 2012 - 08 - 22 ) 1009 1.25 It 's the hottest day of the year , and Bonnie and Ben announce the annual Christmas family photo , and that since they are like family , Tucker and Riley will be taking the picture along with them . Ben then surprises Bonnie that his and Danny 's father , Ray ( Greg Grunberg ) , will be coming into town for the photo , much to Bonnie 's dismay . Tucker and Riley are assigned to go to a storage locker and bring back boxes full of old Christmas costumes . On the drive back , Tucker finds a box with Danny 's old high school journal in it . He and Riley read it and find that Danny was in love with a girl in high school , with her name coded `` Girl X '' . Tucker immediately knows that this girl is Riley and leaves her to figure out who the girl is . Ray arrives in town and Ben tries to get him and Bonnie back together . Later , out on the fire escape , Ray and Bonnie form a sort of a connection . Ray then goes to Ben 's job at the bar and reveals to him that he 's gay and that he 's seeing and living with a guy named Steve . Ben tells him that he can not tell anyone till after the family photo so everyone can be happy . Then Danny arrives and both Ben and Ray tell him that there is someone who wants to come out as gay , and that they should keep it between them . Based on how they told him , Danny assumes it 's Ben . Tucker tells Danny that he and Riley read his journal , but that she has no idea who `` Girl X '' is . Bonnie hits on Ray , thinking they 're going to get back together , but Ben interrupts and stops Bonnie from doing anything else . At the family photography center , Everyone dresses into their costumes . Riley confronts Danny and demands to know who `` Girl X '' is , but Danny refuses to say anything . Right before the picture is taken , Danny blurts out that Ben is gay which surprises everyone , but Ray stops this and admits that he is gay , which makes Bonnie happy because it confirms that the reason the divorce was not her fault . 10 10 `` Something Borrowed , Something Ben '' Michael Lembeck Dan Berendsen & Nancy Cohen August 29 , 2012 ( 2012 - 08 - 29 ) 1010 1.40 Riley is chosen as a maid of honor and is planning a wedding for her friend , Katie ( Melissa Tang ) , who is marrying her childhood sweetheart , Dave , and gets everybody involved . Ben invites a high school friend , Gene ( Trent Garrett ) , a jerk who used to play pranks on Riley , Danny , and Bonnie . Bonnie is asked to make tribute video for the wedding and Danny and Tucker are put in charge of the wedding cake , which they accidentally drop and ruin and try to fix it but are unsuccessful . After partying the night before the wedding , Ben and Katie wake up to find themselves in bed together . At her hotel room , Katie feels guilty and thinks about calling off the wedding and blames Ben for what happened . Riley shows up and makes her nervous , causing her to call off the wedding . Feeling guilty , Ben gives her a speech about true love and finding that special someone and encourages her put the wedding back on . No longer feeling nervous , Katie puts the wedding back on . Back at the boys apartment , Bonnie tells the boys that the wedding could be called off . And Gene says he knows why , revealing to Tucker , Danny , and Bonnie that he 's up to something . Bonnie brings the boys and Gene to Katie 's hotel room to reveal that Ben and Katie never actually slept together . Both were passed out in separate rooms , so Gene put them in the same bed as a prank . Katie and Ben no longer feel guilty , so everybody continues with their wedding duties and Riley shoves Gene into the cake Danny put back together . At the wedding , Riley finds Ben on the roof and Ben asks her to dance with him . During the dance , Ben develops feelings for Riley . While on the roof , Danny sees Ben and Riley dancing and becomes upset because of his feelings for her .