State Alcoholic beverage control state Alcohol sale hours Grocery Store Sales Age Notes Beer Wine Distilled spirits On - premises Off - premises Beer Wine Distilled Spirits Purchasing Consumption Michigan No Yes 7 a.m. -- 2 a.m. ( Mon. -- Sat . ) noon - 2 a.m. ( Sunday ) * sales may begin at 7 a.m. with special license extension 7 a.m. - 2 a.m. ( Mon - Sat ) noon - 2 a.m. ( Sunday ) * sales may begin at 7 a.m. with special license extension , Yes The Michigan Liquor Control Commission allows the sale of alcoholic beverages until 11 : 59 p.m. on December 24 and after 12 : 00 p.m. on December 25 . On - premises sales are permitted on January 1 until 4 : 00 a.m. Local or county ordinance may restrict Sunday or Sunday morning sales . State does not operate retail outlets ; maintains a monopoly over wholesaling of distilled spirits only . Minnesota No ( but see note ) 8 a.m. -- 2 a.m. seven days 8 : 00 a.m. - 10 : 00 p.m. ( Mon -- Sat ) ; 11 : 00 a.m. - 6 : 00 p.m. ( Sun ) 3.2 % Only No Local or County ordinance prevails for hours of operation for off - sale licenses . Growler sales allowed until 10 p.m. 7 days a week . Certain municipalities may establish municipal liquor stores ; they are permitted , but not required , to exclude privately owned stores . Off - premises sales on Sundays became legal on July 1 , 2017 . Mississippi No Yes Local authorities fix hours of alcohol sale Yes No ABW > 5 % wine and sparkling wine sold in state - contracted stores which are open from 10 : 00 am until 10 : 00 pm ( Closed Sundays ) statewide . Beer and light wine ( ABW < 5 % , ABV < ~ 6.3 % ) sold in convenience stores / supermarkets . Beer and light wine ( ABW < 5 % ) may be consumed by persons age 18 - 20 with parental supervision . Governor Phil Bryant signed a bill permitting beer with 8 % ABW / 10 % ABV on April 9 , 2012 . The bill went into effect on July 1 , 2012 . No sales on Christmas Day . No state open container laws . Complimentary alcohol all day and night in coastal casinos . In most counties , alcohol can not be sold on Sundays . There are many dry counties in which it is illegal to possess alcoholic beverages , though some cities within dry counties have voted in beer sales . Missouri No Most establishments : ( Mon -- Sat ) 6 : 00am -- 1 : 30am ( Sunday ) 9 : 00am -- 12 : 00pm Special licenses in Kansas City and St. Louis : ( Daily ) 6 : 00am -- 3 : 00am ( Mon -- Sat ) 6 : 00am -- 1 : 30am ( Sunday ) 9 : 00am -- 12 : 00am Sales permitted until 3 : 00 am in those Kansas City and St. Louis bars grandfathered into the ability to double as liquor stores . Yes One of the most alcohol - permissive states , perhaps only behind Nevada and Louisiana : No open container law . No state public intoxication law . Liquor control law covers all beverages containing more than 0.5 % alcohol , without further particularities based on percentage . Cities and counties are prohibited from banning off - premises alcohol sales . No dry jurisdictions . State preemption of local alcohol laws which do not follow state law . Certain bars in Kansas City and St. Louis grandfathered into the ability to double as liquor stores . Special licenses available for bars and nightclubs which allow selling alcohol until 3 : 00am in Kansas City , Jackson County , North Kansas City , St. Louis , and St. Louis County . Grocery stores , drug stores , and even gas stations may sell liquor without limitation other than hours . Patrons allowed to take open containers out of bars in Kansas City 's Power & Light District . Parents and guardians may furnish alcohol to their children . Missourians over 21 may manufacture up to 100 gallons of any liquor per year for personal use , without any further state limitation , state taxation , or state license . ( Obtaining a permit from the Federal Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau and meeting other requirements under federal law probably still is required for private citizens to manufacture distilled alcohol - but not wine or beer - for personal use . ) Missouri law recognizes two types of alcoholic beverage : liquor , which is any beverage containing more than 0.5 % alcohol except `` non-intoxicating beer '' ; and `` non-intoxicating beer , '' which is beer containing between 0.5 % and 3.2 % alcohol . Liquor laws apply to all liquor , and special laws apply to `` non-intoxicating beer . '' Montana No Yes Closing 2am Yes No ABV > 16 % wine sold in state - contracted stores , ABV < 16 % may be sold in grocery stores . Nebraska No 6 a.m. -- 1 a.m. Legislation passed in 2010 allows for municipalities to extend on - premises sales to 2 a.m. with two - thirds approval of city or county councils . Yes No on - or off - premises sales of spirits before noon on Sundays . All beer , wine , and champagne can be sold starting at 6 a.m. Nevada No 24 hours Yes There are few restrictions on the sale and consumption of alcohol in Nevada except for age . The maximum abv of alcohol sold is 80 % . State law also renders public intoxication legal , and explicitly prohibits any local or state law from making it a public offence . Alcohol purchase is only controlled in Panaca . New Hampshire No Yes 6 a.m. -- 1 a.m. 6 a.m. -- 11 : 45 p.m. Yes No Liquor sold in state - run stores , many found at highway rest areas . 14 % ABV cap on beer . State is wholesaler of wine . State taxes beer $0.30 / gal at the wholesale level . New Jersey No Each municipality can control hours by local ordinance . Most municipalities have a last call of 2 or 3 a.m. Atlantic City , Brigantine , Absecon , Elwood , Pomona , Smithville , Galloway , and Mullica ( All in Atlantic County ) serve 24 hours . There are some dry towns in the southern part of the state , including Ocean City . 9 a.m. - 10 p.m. for liquor . Beer and wine can be sold at any time on - premise sales are permitted in that municipality . This causes most liquor stores to close at 10 PM , however some will stay open an hour later selling only beer and wine . Cities of the first class ( e.g. Jersey City and Newark ) are exempt from this law and may set their own hours for liquor sales . Rarely 21 21 ( unless provided by parent or guardian in private ) Some dry communities in historically Methodist and Quaker communities in the southern part of the state . Though there is not a ban on selling alcoholic beverages at grocery stores , New Jersey limits each chain to two licenses , so with only a few exceptions , most supermarkets / convenience stores / gas stations / pharmacies do not sell alcoholic beverages . In addition , liquor sales are only permitted in a separate department or attached sister store . Bars are allowed to off - sale packaged goods . With the exception of Jersey City and Newark , all municipalities MUST allow off - sales of beer and wine at any time on - sales are permitted . However , since alcoholic beverages are generally only found in package stores , this right is rarely exercised . Alcoholic beverages by the drink as well as off - sales of beer and wine are permitted 24 hours a day in Atlantic City and Brigantine . New Mexico No 7 a.m. -- 2 a.m. , except Sundays , for establishments with full dispenser license . 7 a.m. -- 11 p.m. , except Sundays , for restaurants with beer and wine license . 7 a.m. -- midnight except Sundays Yes New Mexico issues two types of license for consumption on - premises : a full dispenser license allowing sale of all types of alcohol , or a restaurant license permitting sale of beer and wine only . An additional Sunday permit is available which allows sale ( on or off premises ) on Sundays from noon until midnight . Exceptions are the prohibition of alcohol sale on Christmas , regardless of the day it falls on , and a Sunday permit allowing of sale ( on or off premises ) until 2 : 00 a.m. January 1 , if December 31 falls on a Sunday . Sunday permits are only available where approved by voters within a local option district . Selling , serving and giving alcohol to a minor is a class 4 felony punishable by up to 18 months in prison , except when `` a parent , legal guardian or adult spouse of a minor serves alcoholic beverages to that minor on real property , other than licensed premises , under the control of the parent , legal guardian or adult spouse '' , or for religious purposes .