State Alcoholic beverage control state Alcohol sale hours Grocery store sales Age Notes Beer Wine Distilled spirits On - premises Off - premises Beer Wine Distilled spirits Purchasing Consumption Alabama Yes Prohibited between midnight until noon on Sundays in some counties . Private clubs , which require a membership fee and a membership card , have no day or time restrictions . Yes No 21 21 No exceptions to the law 13.9 % ABV cap on beer Beer containers may not exceed 25.4 ounces ( 0.75 l ) ABV > 14.9 % wine sold in state stores Alcohol may be served 24 hours a day unless restricted by local ordinances . Twenty - six of Alabama 's 67 counties do not allow the sale of alcohol . However , possession and consumption remain legal within those 26 counties . Of the 26 `` dry '' counties , 23 have at least one `` wet '' city ; these are considered `` moist '' dry counties . Within those 23 counties there are 43 wet cities . State law allows any city with a population greater than 1,000 located within a dry county to `` go wet '' if a referendum is passed by 50 % of voters . State retains monopoly over wholesaling of distilled spirits only . Distilled spirits ( liquor ) are purchasable in either state - owned retail liquor stores , known as ABC Stores , or privately - owned retail liquor stores . Privately - owned retail liquor stores tend to be open on Sundays , public ( federal & state ) holidays , and later hours than state - owned liquor stores . Alaska No 8 a.m. -- 5 a.m. , except election days ( liquor stores may not open until polls close ) No ( although many grocery stores have separate areas that sell all forms of alcoholic beverages and many bars sell packaged liquor as well ) 21 21 Exception : Underage drinking allowed for medical purposes , and on private non-alcohol selling premises with parental consent Most communities have more restrictive laws , ranging from restrictions on operating hours to bans on sale and possession . Sellers / servers may not , for any reason , give a person alcohol for free or sell it for less than its cost . Sellers / servers may drink while on duty , but no intoxicated person may remain on the premises , so an impaired server could be arrested . Arizona No 6 a.m. -- 2 a.m. seven days a week -- no election day nor holiday restrictions Yes 21 21 Exception : Underage drinking allowed for religious and medical purposes Sales of any type of alcohol are legal at any store that has an off - premises liquor license , including but not limited to convenience stores and grocery stores . Bars may sell closed containers of alcohol for consumption off the premises . Drive - through liquor stores are allowed . Everclear Grain Alcohol Proof 190 ( 95 % alcohol ) is legal . A large percentage of the land area of Arizona is in Indian reservations , many of which have liquor laws considerably more restrictive than state law , up to and including total prohibition . `` Beer busts '' ( all the beer / liquor one can drink for a set price ) in bars are illegal . Persons 19 years of age or older may work in bars and liquor stores serving and selling alcohol . Patrons may not purchase for on premises consumption more than 40 ounces of beer , 1 liter of wine or 4 ounces of distilled spirits at one time . DUI penalties are some of the most severe in the nation . A person convicted of a DUI ( even first offense ) must have an interlock installed in his car for one year . Arizona has an ' Impaired to the Slightest Degree ' law that can convict a person even if his BAC is less than . 08 % . Arkansas No Sale prohibited Sundays , Mondays between 12 : 00 a.m. and 1 : 00 a.m. , or on any other days between the hours of 1 : 00 a.m. and 7 : 00 a.m. The governing body of any city or town may fix later closing hours for the permitted premises of a hotel or restaurant which in no event shall be later than two ( 2 ) hours after midnight on Saturday night . Yes No 21 21 No exceptions to the law Has numerous dry counties and other dry areas , but private clubs can serve even in dry areas . Alcohol sales are generally prohibited on Sundays , but exceptions can be made through local option ( usually for restaurants and private clubs ) . No sales on Christmas Day . California No 6 a.m. -- 2 a.m. Yes 21 21 Exception : A minor will not be penalized for consuming alcohol if discovered or reported through a medical emergency . Relatively unrestricted ; beer , wine and liquor available at grocery stores , convenience stores , gas stations , and warehouse clubs . No statewide holiday restrictions . Motor vehicles entering from Mexico may only import 1 liter of alcohol ( duty - free ) . Sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages higher than 60 % ABV is illegal ( B&P 23403 ) . You may serve alcohol if you are at least 21 years of age . City and county governments can set different sale hours . 18 - , 19 - and 20 - year - old wine and beer production students can taste -- but not consume -- what they are making and studying . Colorado No 7 a.m. -- 2 a.m. Beer , wine , and liquor : 8 a.m. -- midnight 3.2 beer : 5 a.m. - midnight 3.2 only * No * 21 21 Exception : Underage consumption allowed on private non-alcohol selling premises with parental consent , for religious , medical , and educational purposes . Spirituous , vinous & malt liquor available in liquor stores and liquor - licensed drug stores only . Liquor stores closed on Christmas Day . Sunday sales restriction lifted on July 1 , 2008 . Liquor stores and liquor - licensed drug stores may have only one location , while 3.2 % beer may be sold in gas stations , supermarkets , and convenience stores . Appropriately licensed businesses may also sell 3.2 % beer for both on and off - premises consumption . A small number of grocery stores are licensed as drug stores and sell full strength beer , wine , and spirits . As an example , a chain grocery store that has pharmacy services at most or all locations may elect a single location in the chain as the licensed establishment to sell beer , wine , and spirits . Connecticut No 9 a.m. -- 1 a.m. ( Mon. -- Thurs . ) 9 a.m. -- 2 a.m. ( Fri. -- Sat . ) 11 a.m. -- 1 a.m. ( Sun . ) 8 a.m. -- 10 p.m. ( Mon. -- Sat . ) 10 a.m. -- 6 p.m. ( Sun . ) Yes No 21 Exception : No explicit age if a present legal guardian is 21 or older 21 Exception : Underage consumption is allowed on private non alcohol selling premises with parental consent , for medical and religious puroposes , and on alcohol selling premises with parental consent . Sunday off - premises sales allowed as of May 20 , 2012 ; Sunday on - premises sales subject to local ordinances . Beer can be purchased at grocery / convenience stores . Spirits and wine can be purchased only at liquor stores . No off - premises alcohol sales on Thanksgiving , Christmas Day , and New Year 's Day . Open container law applies only to drivers , not passengers . Delaware No 9 a.m. -- 1 a.m. 9 a.m. -- 1 a.m. ( Mon. -- Sat . ) noon -- 8 p.m. ( Sun . ) Municipalities with a population over 50,000 persons may impose stricter hours of sale by local ordinance . No 21 21 Exception : A minor will not be penalized for if discovered consuming alcohol through a medical emergency . Underage drinking allowed on private non-alcohol selling premises with parental consent , for religious purposes . For off - premises consumption , alcohol may be purchased only in a liquor store , taproom , or a brew pub that has an off - premises license . Unless accompanied by a parent or guardian over 21 , no person under 21 may enter a liquor store or taproom for any reason , even for the intent of purchasing only tobacco or lottery tickets . No sales of alcohol by liquor stores or taprooms are permitted during designated holidays including Thanksgiving , Easter or Christmas . District of Columbia No 8 a.m. -- 2 a.m. Sun. -- Thu. , 8 a.m. -- 3 a.m. Fri. -- Sat . Liquor Stores : 9 a.m. -- midnight daily * Grocery Stores : 9 a.m. - 12 a.m. daily Yes No 21 21 Exception : A minor will not be penalized for if discovered consuming alcohol through a medical emergency . * Liquor stores can begin applying for licenses to open on Sunday as of January 16 , 2013 . No singles sold , but stores in some areas may apply for an exemption . Certain wards may be made dry by the decision of the local ANC , but as of 2005 none are The day before a federal or district holiday , on - premises retailers may sell / serve from 8 a.m. - 3 a.m. On New Yer 's Eve , on - premises retailers may sell / serve until 4 a.m. on January 1 . Florida No State law prohibits selling of alcohol between midnight and 7 a.m. , unless the county chooses to change the operating hours later ( FS 562.14 ( 1 ) ) ; such as for Sunday morning ; Ormond Beach stays open until 7pm on Sundays . Miami - Dade County liquor stores may operate 24 hours a day . Yes No 21 21 Exception : 18 for educational purposes Sale , processing , or consumption of any liquor or spirit of greater than 153 proof is illegal . ( FSS 565.07 ) No retail sale of wine in containers larger than 1 gallon . FS 564.05 Supermarkets and other licensed business establishments may sell beer , low - alcohol liquors , and wine . Liquor must be sold in dedicated liquor stores which may be in a separate part of a grocery or a drug store . As of July 1 , 2015 , the restriction on 64 ounce refillable containers , or growlers , has been lifted and beer may be sold in quantities of 64 ounces , in addition to the previously legal 32 and 128 ounce sizes . Georgia No Hours of sale determined by local jurisdiction . No alcohol sales on Christmas Day . Yes No 21 21 Exception : Underage drinking allowed on non-alcoholic premises with parental consent , and for religious and medical purposes . 14 % ABV cap on beer . Sunday off - premises sales from 12 : 30 p.m. to 11 : 30 p.m. allowed only by local referendum . In general , one may not be drunk in public . Though there is no state law prohibiting drinking in public , most municipal corporations and political subdivisions limit the possession of open containers of alcohol to private property , with notable exceptions being Savannah and Roswell . A charge of public drunkenness is only warranted when one is drunk in public and his acts are either loud or disorderly . Hawaii No Bars and restaurants stop serving alcohol at 2 a.m. , but some hold a special ' cabaret license ' that allows them to continue serving alcohol until 4 a.m. 6 a.m. to 12 a.m. Within Honolulu County 6 a.m. to 11 p.m. Within Kauai , Maui , and Hawaii counties Yes 21 21 Exception : Underage consumption allowed for religious purposes