Alisha , portrayed by Juliana Harkavy , is a former Army Reserve member , who is recruited by Martinez 's group sometime in the six - to seven - month timespan between seasons three and four . She strikes up a friendship with Tara , which quickly becomes a full - on romantic relationship . The two remain inseparable once they begin dating ; Alisha even flees with Tara , her family , and The Governor after The Governor 's insistence that he and the Chamblers leave the camp . However , after encountering a roadblock consisting of walkers stuck waist - deep in mud , The Governor returns the group to Martinez 's camp . Alisha participates in `` Brian 's '' attack on the prison ( `` Too Far Gone '' ) , but is later shot between the eyes by Lizzie Samuels . Her death , along with Lilly 's and Meghan 's , sends Tara into a state of depression for a long time . Mitch Dolgen , portrayed by Kirk Acevedo , is a member of Martinez 's group , who with his brother Pete is second in command after Martinez . Mitch , like his brother , was in the army when the walker outbreak occurred ; Mitch was a tank specialist , who said he left the army base in his tank . In `` Dead Weight , '' while on a supply run with Pete and The Governor ( then known as `` Brian '' ) , Mitch wants to raid another camp they encounter , but his brother disagrees . After `` Brian '' kills Martinez and Pete , he enters Mitch 's trailer at gunpoint , advises that he killed Pete and explains why , and convinces Mitch to follow his lead which Mitch , though resentful of `` Brian '' killing his brother , sees his point and accepts . Mitch participates in `` Brian 's '' attack on the prison ( `` Too Far Gone '' ) , operating a tank and destroying much of the prison . Daryl is able to reach the tank and drops a grenade down the barrel of the tank 's main gun , forcing Mitch to escape before the grenade blows up the tank . Mitch turns around , exhausted and defeated , and Daryl shoots and kills him with his crossbow .