Paula , portrayed by Alicia Witt , is first heard talking to Rick over a walkie - talkie telling him she only wants to talk . When he denies her , she reveals she has Carol and Maggie held captive . Paula brings them back to their compound where they tie and gag them . Paula is the counterpart to Carol . When Carol and Maggie escape from the compound , Carol threatens to kill Paula , but wo n't despite Maggie telling her to do so . Instead she shoves her into a pole whereupon she is devoured by a walker and killed by Maggie after she turns . Roman , portrayed by Stuart Greer , is with the group of Saviors on the road , who stop Carol in the middle of the road , and try to subjugate her , but she opens fire , killing several , in addition mortally wounding fellow Savior Jiro and himself . When Roman is about to kill Carol , Morgan aims his gun at him , and gives him a chance to leave , but he declines . And when he is about to kill Carol , Morgan does n't hesitate to shoot , killing him and saving Carol from certain death . Primo , portrayed by Jimmy Gonzales , is a member of Negan 's group . He attempts escape with Daryl 's renovated motorcycle , stolen from him by Dwight in `` Always Accountable . '' He 's shot in the head by Rick Grimes after he claims to be Negan . Donnie , portrayed by Rus Blackwell. is a member of Negan 's group . Donnie ambushes Carol and Maggie , who are guarding the perimeter of the Saviors ' compound . Carol shoots him in the arm , but spares his life . His arm is wrapped and is instructed not to remove it . When Maggie removes Donnie 's tourniquet to let him bleed out , she realizes he 's already dead . He later reanimates and infects Molly , but she stabs him in the head . Molly , portrayed by Jill Jane Clements , is an older savior . She is a chain smoker and has a bad cough . When Molly enters the room Carol was held in to check up on her , she is surprised and bitten in the arm by a zombified Donnie , who reanimated after bleeding to death . Maggie then attacks Molly from behind , takes her gun and uses it to bash in Molly 's head . Jiro , portrayed by Rich Ceraulo , first appearing in `` East , '' is a member of the Saviors . He speaks for a pick - up truck of Saviors and tries to capture Carol , who begins to fire on them . Carol kills most of them , but Jiro dodges the rain of bulletfire . He is discovered by Carol and is shot , later coup - de-grâce stabbed in the head by Rick . Michelle , portrayed by Jeananne Goossen , is member of the Saviors , who take captive Maggie and Carol . She is the counterpart to Maggie . Her boyfriend was blown up by Daryl and she stole gas to go find him , but was caught and her finger got chopped off as a punishment . She reveals she had a baby , but it died . When Michelle begins hearing gunshots coming from inside the compound , she runs out to investigate , but gets shot in the head by Carol . Cam , portrayed by Matt Lowe , is a member of the Saviors , he is hunting for Dwight , Honey and Tina . While in hiding , Daryl Dixon rustles some branches and distracts Cam , causing him to get bitten on the forearm by a walker pinned against the tree . Wade , the party leader , immediately uses a belt for a tourniquet and hacks off Cam 's forearm without hesitation . Gavin , portrayed by Jayson Smith Warner , is main top lieutenant and the leader of a small group of Saviors in charge of collecting weekly offerings from the Kingdom . Jared , portrayed by Joshua Mikel , is a member of the Saviors , he works for Gavin . This one causes the death to Benjamin when it shoots in the legs which causes that the Kingdom rises against Negan . He is captured by Paul `` Jesus '' Rovia . Arat , portrayed by Elizabeth Ludlow , is a female member of the Saviors , commissioned for confiscating supplies , weapons , and furniture of Alexandria , under Negan 's orders . Joseph `` Fat Joey '' , portrayed by Joshua Hoover , is a member of the Saviors . He is ordered to watch Daryl by Negan and is killed by Daryl when he escapes the Sanctuary . David , portrayed by Martinez , is a member of Negan 's group . He is killed by Negan when attempts to rape Sasha . Gary , portrayed by Mike Seal , is a Savior , who raids Alexandria for supplies , weapons , and furniture . As Negan and Rick walk around , Gary approaches Negan with the video camera that Deanna used to interview Rick and the other new arrivals . Mark , portrayed by Griffin Freeman , is a member of the Saviors and Amber 's ex-boyfriend . When he tried to escape with Amber , Negan punishes him by burning his face . Laura , portrayed by Lindsley Register , is a female member of the Saviors . Isabelle , portrayed by Aerli Austen , is a member of Negan 's group , when she was driving a pick - up truck by herself she notices a line of zombie corpses in the road . As she gets out to investigate , she is captured by Michonne . She is later shot in the head by Michonne . Roy , portrayed by Brian Stapf , is a member of the Saviors , killed by zombificated Sasha biting him in the face .