Louis Anthony Stevens ( Shia LaBeouf ) -- Louis , the youngest Stevens sibling , is viewed as immature , rude , lazy , boisterous , selfish , carefree , and extremely mischievous . His entire family is viewed as perfect next to him . He is always pulling jokes with best friend Alan Twitty and is described as ruining everyone 's lives . He never seems to change with time . His parents seem to favor his sister Ren and brother Donnie because of the great successes both have achieved , but his parents do love him dearly and try to defend him . Louis tends to do unattractive things ( saying nasty words , picking nose , etc . ) , though everything is presented to the audience in endearing ways . Tawny Dean becomes his girlfriend at the end of the series . His birthday is on June 27 as shown in episode 33 . Ren Stevens ( Christy Carlson Romano ) -- An intelligent , well - behaved , perfectionist 8th - grader , Ren is the middle sibling . She is the classic overachiever , constantly running for hall monitor and class president while trying to keep Louis 's schemes from becoming disasters . She is the head newscaster for `` The Wombat Report '' and spent a few weeks on her school 's cheerleading squad . Ren is the editor of the school newspaper and the yearbook , a straight - A student , and Principal Wexler 's highly - valued assistant . Despite her top - student ranking , Ren got sentenced to , and served , detention on at least one occasion . Ren 's favorite color is blue . Donald `` Donnie '' Stevens ( Nick Spano ) -- Ren and Louis ' athletic big brother . Donnie is highly concerned with his appearance . His popularity , good looks , and superb athletic skills made him a heartthrob and legend at their school , even after his graduation . Although he excels in many sports , he 's an airhead . Steven `` Steve '' Stevens ( Tom Virtue ) -- A quirky lawyer . He played college football for Michigan State University with the nickname `` Stiffie '' Stevens . He used to be a wrestler for his school . He is the father of Donnie , Ren , and Louis . Eileen Stevens ( Donna Pescow ) -- A successful , no - nonsense , Jewish American state senator who launched a campaign for the U.S. House of Representatives in 2002 and was narrowly defeated . She is the mother of Donnie , Ren , and Louis .