Athens worshipped Athena , the goddess of wisdom , as a patron city - state god . The designation of Athena as patron of Athens occurred during the Great Panathenaea in 566 B.C. , potentially coinciding with construction of the Altar of Athena Polias . An epithet of Athena commonly referred to as Athena Alea , served as patron of the cities of Alea , Mantinea and Tegea . Sparta worshipped Artemis as their patron goddess , under the epithet `` Athena Poliachos '' ( Athena Protector of the City ) . However , while he was not the chief deity , Apollo was widely worshipped in the most important religious celebrations in the polis . Elis and Olympia had Zeus as their city god . The statue of Zeus at Olympia was one of the seven wonders of the ancient world . Syracuse , as with Athens , worshipped Athena . Reference to Athena can be seen on their city - state banner . Thespiae was a city / state that worshiped Eros . Due to this , the Thespian hoplites would bear the crescent moon symbol on their shield , the crescent moon was `` the lunar Aphrodite '' . The was a bull 's foot . Another name for Dionysus was Axios Tauros , which translates as ' worthy bull ' . Corinth chose Poseidon , lord of the sea , as their city - state patron god . The patron god of Thebes was Dionysus , also called Bacchus and Iacchos . Dionysus ' mother , Semele , was a Theban princess . Sophocles ' includes in his play Antigone an ode to Dionysus , the guardian of Thebes ; in that ode Dionysus is claimed to have Thebes as his most honoured city . Megara worshipped Apollo as their patron god , and as such , he is lauded by the poet Theognis of Megara in his collection of works Theognidea as guardian of the city . The polis of Argos was dedicated to the worship of Hera . The island city - state of Samos , in the Aegean Sea , worshipped Hera too as their patron . Rhodes was a city on an island , which built the Colossus of Rhodes , a giant statue , in honor to their patron god , Helios . Both Eretria and Epidauros worshipped Apollo as their patron god . Eretria , as Apollo Daphnephoros ; and Epidauros as Apollo Maleatas ( Apollo 's son , Asklepios , was also worshipped at Epidauros ) . The patron god of the city of Miletus , in Asia Minor , was Apollo . The sanctuary and oracle of Didyma , devoted to Apollo , was within Miletus ' territory . The patron goddess of Ephesus , also in Asia Minor , was Artemis , who had been identified with an oriental mother goddess , like Cybele . The Temple of Artemis , or Artemision , in Ephesus was one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World . The city of Cnidus , in Asia Minor , worshipedΆ Aphrodite as their patron .