No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) 60 `` Heroes of Mandalore : Part 1 '' Steward Lee Henry Gilroy & Steven Melching October 16 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 16 ) 401 N / A Sabine , Kanan and Ezra lead Clan Wren in a raid on a Clan Saxon outpost to rescue Sabine 's father who is being held captive by Clan Saxon on behalf of the Empire . The outpost turns out to be a trap to capture Sabine but they are rescued by Lady Bo - Katan of Clan Kryze . As Bo - Katan should have become ruler of Mandalore after her sister , Duchess Satine , was murdered , Sabine attempts to give her the Darksaber but Bo - Katan refuses to accept it . Sabine 's father is to be moved to the capital city for a public execution so Sabine plans to rescue him as he is being transported there . They attack the convoy and succeed in rescuing Sabine 's father , Alrich Wren , who turns out to be as much of an artist as Sabine . Sabine is contacted by her mother just as the Empire reveals a new weapon , the sound of which Sabine recognises . They rush to the site of the attack and find every Mandalorian warrior vaporized . Sabine is devastated as she realises they were killed by a weapon she personally designed for the Empire . 61 `` Heroes of Mandalore : Part 2 '' Saul Ruiz Christopher Yost October 16 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 16 ) 402 N / A Sabine is relieved to find her mother and brother have survived the Empire 's attack . As more Imperials arrive , Sabine and her allies are rescued by Clan Kryze , while Bo - Katan and Ezra destroy the pursuing TIE fighters . Saxon shows a recording of the weapon 's field test to Thrawn -- the weapon superheats an alloy in Mandalorian armor , killing the occupant , but leaving stormtroopers unharmed . At Bo - Katan 's camp , her men confront Sabine for her role in the creation of the weapon which she named the Duchess , after Bo - Katan 's sister , Satine . Sabine convinces Clan Kryze to join her in a raid on Saxon 's Star Destroyer to destroy the weapon . During the assault , Sabine is incapacitated by Saxon , who orders her to adjust to weapon to its full power . She does so , but she instead recalibrates the weapon to target Imperial armor , which stuns the Imperial troops . Sabine slashes the weapon with the Darksaber , breaching its power core and destroying the Star Destroyer . At the Kryze camp , Sabine gives Bo - Katan the Darksaber , making her the true leader of Mandalore . 62 `` In the Name of the Rebellion : Part 1 '' Sergio Paez Gary Whitta October 23 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 23 ) 403 0.26 Ezra , Kanan and Sabine arrive on Yavin 4 to join the main group of the Rebel Alliance . Hera 's squadron also arrives , having barely survived an Imperial ambush , which Bail Organa attributes to an Imperial communications relay on Jalindi . A droid projects a hologram of Saw Gerrera , who mocks Mon Mothma for her unwillingness to go to any lengths to defeat the Empire , and Mothma angrily responds , refusing to stoop to the violence and extremism committed by Gerrera 's cell . She sends the Ghost crew on a mission to intercept the relay 's transmissions . Sabine inadvertently connects them to the main channel on an approaching light cruiser , forcing Ezra to impersonate an Imperial officer -- unfortunately it is the very officer who is commanding the cruiser , Brom Titus . Sabine calls for Hera to pick them up , as they have been seen . Before she can do so , a U-Wing piloted by Gerrera arrives , picks up Ezra and Sabine , then bombs the relay dish , destroying it and the cruiser . Hera demands Gerrera transfer Ezra and Sabine , but he jumps into hyperspace . 63 `` In the Name of the Rebellion : Part 2 '' Bosco Ng Matt Michnovetz October 23 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 23 ) 404 0.25 Gerrera convinces Ezra and Sabine to aid him in discovering the secret weapon he is convinced the Empire is working on . They board an Imperial cargo shuttle disguised as a regular civilian spacecraft , and discover a group of prisoner engineers from the planet Coruscant who are being shipped to Jedha for an apparent project . Gerrera insists that this is more evidence of a secret weapon . They also find a giant kyber crystal , which they plan to haul out of there with the prisoners . Chopper attempts to get the prisoners out of harm 's way via escape pod , though they are stopped by the Empire . When the plans to get the crystal off of the ship fail , Gerrera blasts it so that it will explode . He calls Two - Tubes to pick him up , and Ezra and Sabine are rescued by the Ghost crew after destroying a massive Star Destroyer . The engineers decide they want to join the Rebel cause , and they head back to Yavin IV . 64 5 `` The Occupation '' Steward Lee Christopher Yost October 30 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 30 ) 405 0.20 The rebels are informed by Ryder Azadi that the Empire is building a new and improved version of the TIE Defender . Ezra and the Ghost crew depart for Lothal , using Vizago to smuggle them in because the Empire has severely tightened its grip around the planet and nearly crushed the local rebel cell . They find the environment ruined from the Empire 's activities , and that some acquaintances like Old Joe were arrested and executed for aiding rebels . Identified and chased , Ezra 's crew finds unexpected aid from Ezra 's old Academy friend Jai Kell and Azadi himself , who ferry them to safety , but are sorely disappointed to hear that the Rebel Alliance is unable to execute a liberation strike on Lothal . Ezra tries to stay optimistic by telling them that they can destroy the TIE Defender factory by working together , though Azadi remains skeptical due to having witnessed the capabilities of the new TIE Defender . 65 6 `` Flight of the Defender '' Saul Ruiz Dave Filoni & Steven Melching October 30 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 30 ) 406 0.19 The Ghost crew scouts an Imperial air field where the new TIE Defender is being tested . Sabine hits upon the idea of stealing its flight data recorder to obtain the information the rebels need about the TIE , but unfortunately Grand Admiral Thrawn appears to witness a combat demonstration of the new fighter . Cornered , Sabine steals the fighter to get herself and Ezra to safety , but due to an installed kill switch the fighter ends up stranded in the hills of Lothal . While hiding the TIE 's hyperdrive for later retrieval and then trying to evade the Imperial search parties , Ezra catches several unexpected glimpses of a white Loth - Wolf , a rare predatory species . Eventually , the Loth - Wolf appears before him , sends Sabine to sleep and carries them back to their friends , only to disappear as mysteriously as it appeared , leaving Ezra with a strange parting message to ponder over . 66 7 `` Kindred '' Sergio Paez Dave Filoni & Henry Gilroy November 6 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 06 ) 407 N / A Ezra , Jai Kell and Zeb move to secure the TIE Defender 's hyperdrive before the Imperial recovery team can find it , but Thrawn has already dispatched an additional helper for the search : Rukh , an assassin and unerringly accurate tracker . As Zeb takes the hyperdrive to safety , Ezra and Jai end up being chased by Rukh ; they elude him with much difficulty , but a tracking beacon Rukh attached to their speeder leads Governor Pryce to the Ghost crew 's hideout . While Hera and Chopper evacuate to Yavin with the stolen flight recorder , the rest of the rebels face the incoming Imperials to cover their retreat . Just before the two groups clash , the white Loth - Wolf reappears and leads them into a hidden tunnel complex imbued with the Force . Walking mysterious paths , the rebels inexplicably find themselves in a hidden settlement halfway across the planet which was visited in ancient times by the Jedi who erected the secret temple on Lothal , and discover that the Loth - Wolf is a messenger of the Force , here to tell them of a more sinister goal pursued by the Empire . 67 8 `` Crawler Commandeers '' Bosco Ng Matt Michnovetz November 6 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 06 ) 408 N / A After the Lothal rebels have taken shelter in the ancient settlement , they discover a Mining Guild ore crawler stripping Lothal 's surface for raw materials passing by , and decide to hijack it to establish contact with Hera and the Yavin rebel base with its communicators . However , the crawler 's captain manages to shut down the vehicle and raise the alarm , and as Sabine works to reactivate it , Kanan and Zeb discover a number of slaves in the hull , among them Vizago , who was sold to the Guild by the Empire . Working together , the rebels and the former slaves allay an incoming Imperial patrol investigating the distress call and prevent the captain from destroying the crawler . In the meantime , Hera , unwilling to wait any longer , inspires rebel command to conduct an immediate assault on the factory where the TIE Defender is being produced , and after communication is established , Ezra 's team agrees to coordinate the impending assault from the planet 's surface . 68 9 `` Rebel Assault '' Steward Lee Dave Filoni & Steven Melching November 13 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 13 ) 409 N / A Hera and her assault team arrive at Lothal and begin to battle their way past the Imperial blockade , while the Ghost crew on the ground sabotage the anti-aircraft batteries to allow an unhindered attack on the TIE factory at Lothal 's capital . However , with Thrawn coordinating the Imperial defenses , the Rebel attack force is annihilated , with only a few survivors -- Hera , Chopper and pilot Mart Mattin -- managing to reach the surface and regroup safely . As Hera 's group attempts to slip out of the city under constant assailing by Rukh , Kanan returns to the capital to look for her , only to be stopped by the Loth - Wolf , and he asks it what he should do . Hera manages to open an escape route , but is captured by Rukh before she can use it . Mart and Chopper are then picked up by Kanan and brought to the rebels ' hideout as the Loth - Wolf watches . 69 10 `` Jedi Night '' TBA TBA February 19 , 2018 ( February 19 , 2018 ) TBA TBD 70 11 `` DUME '' TBA TBA February 19 , 2018 ( February 19 , 2018 ) TBA TBD 71 12 `` Wolves and a Door '' TBA TBA February 26 , 2018 ( February 26 , 2018 ) TBA TBD 72 13 `` A World Between Worlds '' TBA TBA February 26 , 2018 ( February 26 , 2018 ) TBA TBD 73 14 `` A Fool 's Hope '' TBA TBA March 5 , 2018 ( March 5 , 2018 ) TBA TBD 74 - 75 15 - 16 `` Family Reunion and Farewell '' TBA TBA March 5 , 2018 ( March 5 , 2018 ) TBA TBD