No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) 23 `` The Times They Are A-Changin ' '' Timothy Busfield Gabe Sachs & Jeff Judah June 1 , 2016 ( 2016 - 06 - 01 ) 4.81 Following Jordan 's loss of her baby , she and TC have broken up but are still working together . Jordan recruits one of her colleagues , Shannon Rivera ( Tanaya Beatty ) , to join the night shift , and Shannon makes an unusual first impression with the staff . Meanwhile , Drew is sent overseas to Afghanistan along with colleague Syd Jennings ( guest star Jennifer Beals ) , where they are forced to tend to a 15 - year old patient who is pregnant and whose husband is a high - ranking member of the Afghani army . Elsewhere , TC , Topher , and Scott tend to a female car accident victim , only to realize when the woman 's husband arrives that they left her young son behind at the scene . Also , Gwen updates Kenny on her law school applications , and later learns the closest she got to acceptance was being put on a wait list at Georgetown . 24 `` The Thing with Feathers '' Timothy Busfield Tom Garrigus June 8 , 2016 ( 2016 - 06 - 08 ) 4.18 Following a fight between Drew and the Afghani leader , the leader is accidentally shot in the shoulder by Drew , putting him in a tough spot . Despite the problem , Drew and Syd are able to help the young mom , her baby , and her brother get away from the leader . The consequences to this causes Drew to get sent home early while Syd , who was looking forward to her daughter 's 13th birthday in two weeks , has to stay on tour an additional three months , due to a shortage of personal working there . TC and Scott deal with the car accident victim from the previous episode while simultaneously trying to save her son . They later determine the boy needs a bone marrow transfusion , but he is adopted and the parents claim they do n't know the birth mother , which sounds fishy to TC . His suspicions are soon confirmed , as the boy was actually kidnapped by the couple . Desperate to have a child , they stole him from his birth parents at a mall . Elsewhere , Shannon helps Jordan move on from TC , Topher tries to renew his commitment to get fit again , and Gwen learns she moved off the wait list at Georgetown when another candidate drops out . To Kenny 's dismay , she has to leave the next morning . 25 `` The Way Back '' Tara Nicole Weyr Janet Lin June 15 , 2016 ( 2016 - 06 - 15 ) 4.47 Drew returns from Afghanistan and deals with the aftermath . Meanwhile , Jordan and the team deal with a newly - married couple whose wedding is ruined by the bride 's alcoholic father . Drew treats the father , an Iraq War veteran who served multiple tours , and tries to get the daughter , Kryztal ( Lindsey Morgan ) , to understand the root of her dad 's problems . Topher and TC invite Topher 's overbearing mother Sumei ( Elizabeth Sung ) to a casino . After they treat an elderly man named Clive ( Lance Henriksen ) who collapses while playing craps , Topher works to understand why his mother is so critical of him . Meanwhile , Paul comes up with a diagnosis for Kryztal that helps him finally earn the respect of both his subordinates and his fellow doctors . 26 `` Three - Two - One '' Oz Scott Zachary Lutsky June 22 , 2016 ( 2016 - 06 - 22 ) 4.30 Amid protests over a court case involving a white police officer who shot an African American , riots erupt causing TC and Paul to be sent to the scene to treat any wounded . They arrive to find an officer and an African American perp named Shawn both shot and in critical condition . They can only put one on the first helicopter , and TC makes a call to send the officer , angering Paul who has to try and keep Shawn alive at the scene . At the hospital , Jordan treats Officer Benedict , the policeman at the center of the court case . Kenny has already made up his mind about Benedict 's guilt , while Jordan hears the man out when he says he only shot because his own life was threatened . Shannon and Drew deal with the contaminated people ( after officers are forced to use tear gas ) ; after Drew leaves , Shannon is stuck with a 10 - year - old separated from his mother . Jordan also finds a tumor in Benedict that she has to treat immediately to save his life . Drew and TC treat the officer brought back from the riot scene , but can not save him . The bullet TC removes from the man 's body , however , shows the fatal shot came from the gun of the man 's partner , not Shawn 's gun . Soon after , Benedict is being escorted out of the hospital when a protestor on the street shoots him in the head , killing him . 27 5 `` Get Busy Livin ' '' Dailyn Rodriguez Gabe Fonseca June 29 , 2016 ( 2016 - 06 - 29 ) 4.46 As TC and Paul treat an injured person at a college party , a young co-ed falls from a fourth floor balcony to the pavement . Critically injured , the young woman tells her roommate as she is being wheeled into surgery that she was trying to kill herself . Scott learns that the hospital is on the short list to receive cutting - edge heart valve technology , but pharmaceutical rep Jessica Sanders ( AnnaLynne McCord ) holds the keys to their winning the program . TC angrily confronts Sanders when he learns an acne medication her company makes , and which the co-ed was taking , has `` suicidal thoughts '' as one of its side effects . The two later reconcile , with Jessica admitting the hospital was going to get the heart valve program anyway , and she was trying to use the situation to make a big sale . Elsewhere , Annie and Scott bond over their issues with substance abuse , while Jordan decides to finally spend the night with Sam . 28 6 `` Hot in the City '' Darnell Martin Nicole Rubio June 29 , 2016 ( 2016 - 06 - 29 ) 4.46 The opening reveals TC sleeping with Jessica , Jordan waking up with Sam , Kenny sleeping with Nurse Jocelyn ( Alma Sisneros ) , and Scott and Annie making out in a car . At the hospital , the air conditioning goes out on one of the hottest days of the year . Shannon and Jordan attend a local wrestling event , only to wind up bringing patrons back to the hospital after a fight breaks out . A young man who befriended Jordan at the event is injured , but his treatment reveals something worse . The ring girl has an injury to her spine that may cause paralysis , but Drew performs a successful surgery using a technique he learned on the battlefield . TC treats a competitive runner who collapsed from the heat . Her tests reveal possible meningitis , but it turns out she has an entirely different condition . Jordan later confronts Scott , saying it 's not a good idea for him to date Annie , while Jordan herself decides to break up with Sam when he starts to get too serious . 29 7 `` By Dawn 's Early Light '' Louis Shaw Milito Brian Anthony July 6 , 2016 ( 2016 - 07 - 06 ) 5.74 Syd returns stateside , and is attending an outdoor concert with Drew and her daughter Riley ( Jillian Estell ) , when banks of fireworks ignite early , causing chaos . A mother ( Jessica Tuck ) and her daughter Darika ( Jackie R. Jacobson ) are badly burned . TC and Topher arrive on the scene , and Topher authorizes Syd to assist in treating the mother and daughter back at the hospital . Soon after , Topher approaches a burning truck that contains fireworks and it explodes . Topher is badly hurt , but he refuses tests and insists on continuing to treat the wounded , over TC 's and Jordan 's objections . It is later discovered that Topher suffered a concussion . At the hospital , Scott and Syd treat the mother 's burns . Impressed with Syd 's techniques , Scott offers her a job , and Syd says she 'll think about it . Paul and Shannon treat a street artist with a mysterious ailment , and in doing so , the two doctors finally find some common ground . Scott explains his attraction to Annie in a conversation with Jordan , asking that Jordan stay out of it . Kenny and Nurse Jocelyn consider going on a real date instead of just sleeping together . Syd learns that her ex-husband is moving to Washington , D.C. with his new wife and , to avoid a custody battle and stay close to Riley , Syd decides she will also move to D.C. 30 8 `` All In '' Tara Nicole Weyr Milla Bell - Hart July 13 , 2016 ( 2016 - 07 - 13 ) 6.28 Drew and Shannon rescue a woman and her foster daughter , Brianna ( Kyla Kenedy ) , from a car crash . As she is wheeled into surgery , the woman reveals she wants to adopt Brianna . While Drew tries to calm the scared Brianna , the team ca n't save the mom . At Shannon 's request , Paul pretends the mom is `` dying '' but still alive , so Brianna can say goodbye . Shannon reveals to Nina ( Briana Marin ) , the social worker assigned to Brianna 's case , that she herself was a foster child . Topher and TC treat Topher 's mother Sumei when she arrives with a life - threatening condition . Coincidentally , Clive , the man who collapsed at the casino ( S3 , Ep3 ) , is also back in the hospital . TC finds that Clive 's nitro patch is missing and , following a hunch , he finds it stuck to Sumei 's back , revealing she and Clive were engaged in sexual activity . Jordan and Scott treat Dylan ( Josh Fadem ) , who is having a rare reaction to a kidney stone . Scott wants to break up the stone with an ultrasound device , but the software malfunctions . Jordan notices the machine is made by Jessica Sanders ' company , causing her to have to call TC 's girlfriend to fix the problem and save Dylan . Meanwhile , throughout the night , everyone keeps congratulating Kenny , but he does n't know why . Jocelyn finally reveals Kenny was elected head of the nurses ' union at the hospital , a job he does n't want . As the shift ends , Nina asks Kenny out `` for coffee sometime '' , and hands him a card in full view of Jocelyn . Kenny does n't accept , but he does n't refuse , either . In the parking lot , Shannon thanks Paul for helping with the Brianna situation , then kisses him hard , and the two fall into the back seat of a car . 31 9 `` Unexpected '' Marisol Adler Janet Lin July 27 , 2016 ( 2016 - 07 - 27 ) 5.32 This section 's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed . Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise . ( November 2017 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) A female patient is wheeled in to the ER as the shift begins , and she complains about leaving her backpack behind . TC is tasked with her . The woman comes back out moments later to look for her backpack , which a fill - in nurse does not realize is right under his foot . The nurse goes after the woman and walks the backpack outside . Meanwhile , the nurses are on strike for not getting raises promised to them years ago . Kenny and Jocelyn get in a fight when he incites his intern . Kenny 's young soccer - playing friend Lauren ( China Anne McClain ) gets treated for possible pneumonia . Lauren steps outside , and a bomb goes off right outside the front doors . She is critically injured by the blast , and the fill - in nurse is killed . As the SWAT team clears the perimeter , TC 's patient is no where to be found . He assists the SWAT team in finding her in her pickup truck . Just before they seduce her to bring her back to surgery , TC asks why she brought the bomb , and she answers with `` you deserve it . '' Shannon confesses to Jordan that she slept with Paul ; however , the two get awkward around each other . Drew continues to help Brianna , his young patient with cystic fibrosis , only to find out she needs a lung transplant . Shannon and Paul are tasked with removing glass from Jordan 's patient , and find out the man has anthrax . Realizing the anthrax was in the bomb , the hospital is shut down , and everyone decontaminates . The nurses come back in to help , despite the strike . While reopening blood flow to Lauren 's foot that was damaged in the explosion , Kenny and Scott find out she has lung cancer . Jordan and TC remove bullets from the patient who brought the bomb , and Jordan remembers she was a former patient . As the two talk , the woman says Jordan saved her life after her husband and child were killed by a drunk driver . Claiming Jordan should have just let her die , she pulls her chest tube out , killing herself . In the end , Drew tells Brianna she needs the transplant , the nurses get their raise and end the strike , while Lauren confesses she actually does n't like soccer . Topher gets a phone call and finds out the hospital was sold to an insurance company , which plans to sell off the ER . 32 10 `` Between a Rock and a Hard Place '' Jeff Judah Tom Garrigus & Zachary Lutsky August 3 , 2016 ( 2016 - 08 - 03 ) 5.00 TC and Paul arrive at the site of a quarry accident , where they pronounce one of the workers , a seventeen year old male , brain dead . Another teenager asks TC for help with his friend , who is falling down a sinkhole . TC saves him , using unconventional methods to get rock out of the kid 's throat . Paul sends a blood sample to the hospital to see if the deceased man can give his lungs to Brianna . Drew tells Brianna that he and Rick want to adopt her , and she is thrilled . Meanwhile , Scott and Jordan have to run dialysis for Malik , whom Scott paralyzed in a car accident last season , but Malik 's dad refuses to let Scott work on the boy . The dad goes into cardiac arrest and the two have to operate on him immediately . Drew gets the labs back on the lungs and finds five of the six requirements match , however Paul informs him that the victim 's mom refused the transplant . Paul later gets the mom to accept ; however , because Brianna is not a perfect match , her transplant is aborted and the lungs are given to another candidate who has a better chance of survival . Scott and Malik 's dad make up , after Jordan talks with all three and Malik just wants the fighting to stop . Topher finds out that Jessica Sanders is actually heading the transition team for Hobart , the insurance company that bought the hospital . She volunteers to help with the insurance papers and tries to get Topher interested in another job offer , knowing Hobart will want their own Chief of Surgery and that Topher will be the first one fired . TC realizes Jessica knew about the sale to Hobart and kept it from him , so he angrily ends his romance with her . 33 11 `` Trust Issues '' Oz Scott Dailyn Rodriguez August 3 , 2016 ( 2016 - 08 - 03 ) 5.00 TC and Drew land in jail after a bar fight . Jordan and Shannon 's double date ends in disaster when Jordan 's date falls through a glass door , and is unconscious . While Jordan tends to her date , his wife shows up and a deeper secret is revealed . Topher enlists Shannon to help him with a patient whose condition is claimed to be psychological . Annie begins to work at the hospital , and later confronts Scott when Jordan reveals she and Scott recently kissed . Kenny and Jocelyn break up , and Kenny begins to see Nina , Brianna 's social worker . The hospital attempts to contact Drew after Brianna gets another chance at a lung transplant . With time running out to get Brianna into surgery , Paul has to ease her fears . The hospital finally contacts Drew , and Kenny sends Jessica to bail out Drew and TC . Nina is totally blown away by Drew being in jail , and considers not accepting the adoption . Syd returns to sign her release papers and meet Brianna . Topher and Shannon find out their patient 's condition is due to a kissing bug reaction , and is therefore physiological . Jessica attempts to regain TC 's trust , while Drew arrives at the hospital late . Brianna wakes up to Drew , Syd , and Rick , with her new lungs working great . Topher tells the hospital staff what is really going on with the sale of the hospital and the future of the ER . Syd tries to recruit people to go with her on an assignment at the Turkish border . TC decides some time away might do him some good , so he accepts . 34 12 `` Emergent '' Timothy Busfield Brian Anthony & Gabe Fonseca August 24 , 2016 ( 2016 - 08 - 24 ) 5.52 Kenny reveals to Topher that some pain medication has been stolen , and everyone except Scott points fingers at Annie . Paul and Shannon butt heads over how to treat a patient who comes in with internal burns . Jordan and Scott deal with a man who caught his hand in a bear trap , and a piece of the trap ends up in his lung . Topher 's old Army friend Mac comes in and asks Topher to sign off on a physical exam requirement so he can return to active duty , but Topher insists on doing the exam . TC and Syd get caught in a typhus outbreak at the Syria - Turkey border when more people flood into their refugee camp . Nina informs Drew that his adoption plans for Brianna are put on hold when Brianna 's birth father , who did n't even know he had a daughter until a few months ago , comes back into the picture . Kenny reveals the gym he owns has flooded and he asks Paul for a loan . Kenny then makes a phone call to a mysterious person who may be a loan shark . Mac returns later and asks if anyone would help him at the site of a fire , and Jordan and Scott volunteer . Annie checks TC 's locker and finds his field jacket gone ; it is later revealed Jordan is wearing TC 's jacket and finds the missing pain pills in a pocket . Syd catches typhus after giving her pills to an older Kurdish woman . Mac , Jordan , and Scott get trapped after the fire quickly changes direction . Topher learns that the buyer he 'd hoped would purchase the E.R. from Hobart has backed out , only to have Paul reveal his father is part of an organization that buys hospitals . A package containing needed typhus medication for TC and Syd is dropped by parachute , but it floats to the Turkey side of the border fence and the Turkish guards refuse to let TC retrieve it . 35 13 `` Burned '' Tara Nicole Weyr Tom Garrigus August 31 , 2016 ( 2016 - 08 - 31 ) 5.43 Scott and Jordan get trapped in a rapidly intensifying wildfire and are forced to do surgery in a farm . Topher 's friend Mac is with them and goes back into the blaze to save them . TC gets arrested at the Syria - Turkey border when he tries to get the crate of Cipro which floated to the Turkish side . Syd 's typhus symptoms get worse . TC later makes a promise with a Turkish guard ; in exchange for the supply , he says Syd can perform surgery on the man 's lame child . Kenny waits on a loan from Paul , and tells a loan shark he should have his $5,000 soon . Jordan tells Scott that Annie stole the missing pain pills . Paul 's father arrives , and the two get into a disagreement over treatment for a patient . Drew and Rick do a background check on Brianna 's father , which reveals his ulterior motive . The two later get the father to drop the custody suit , allowing Drew and Rick take Brianna home . Scott escorts Annie to rehab over her initial protests . Paul 's father buys the E.R. but fires Topher , saying Topher is too willing to give high - priced treatment to people who ca n't pay . This causes Paul and most of the remaining staff ( except for Shannon ) to resign in protest . Shannon says she can not risk quitting at this stage of her career , and Paul says he understands . The two then confess their love for each other . Paul 's father cuts off his son 's financial support , causing Paul to ask Kenny to give back the $5,000 check . Kenny does so , then walks toward his loan shark and two other large , intimidating men . As TC and Syd prepare to go their separate ways , missiles strike their camp , leaving the two unconscious .