No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) 70 `` The Flash Reborn '' Glen Winter Story by : Andrew Kreisberg Teleplay by : Todd Helbing & Eric Wallace October 10 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 10 ) T27. 13401 2.84 Iris has been aiding Team Flash in Central City for six months , but refuses to grieve Barry . A flying samurai with superpowers appears in Central City , threatening to destroy the city if the real Flash does not face him . Cisco reveals he has formulated a way to bring back Barry without destabilizing the Speed Force and tracks down Caitlin for help , but is forbidden by Iris to bring Barry back . Against Iris ' orders , Team Flash successfully returns Barry , who rambles random statements and continually writes symbols on the walls . Wally engages the samurai , but is defeated . Cisco deciphers Barry 's writings and finds an apparently meaningless sentence . In an attempt to recover Barry 's memories , Iris gives herself up to the samurai . The plan works and Barry speeds away , rescuing Iris and defeating the samurai , who is revealed to be an android . Caitlin rejoins Team Flash , but is revealed to have been working for a mobster called Amunet , while also continuing to prevent the Killer Frost personality from emerging . The `` Samuroid '' is revealed to have been controlled by the Thinker , whose plan was to draw out the Flash for his next schemes . 71 `` Mixed Signals '' Alexandra La Roche Jonathan Butler & Gabriel Garza October 17 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 17 ) T27. 13402 2.54 When Barry , Joe , and Cisco report to a crime scene , they discover remnants of a mysterious code . Cisco presents Barry with a technologically advanced suit , intended to facilitate his activities . He tests it out , trying to save someone from a haywire car controlled by metahuman Ramsey Deacon . Gypsy arrives on Earth - 1 for a date with Cisco , who is forced to cancel it so as to focus on Deacon . Acting on a suggestion from Caitlin , Iris signs her and Barry up for couples therapy to sort out their relationship . Deacon kidnaps a witness , a former member of a tech team that stole his idea for profit . Barry and Wally go to save him , but Deacon uses his abilities to send Barry 's suit haywire . On Iris ' instruction , Barry throws lightning at himself , shorting out his suit . He then incapacitates Deacon , who is locked up in the meta wing of Iron Heights , revealed to be part of the Thinker 's plan . Cisco finally goes out with Gypsy . Wondering how Deacon gained his powers being absent during the particle accelerator incident , Barry and Joe learn from Deacon that there are `` others . '' 72 `` Luck Be a Lady '' Armen V. Kevorkian Sam Chalsen & Judalina Neira October 24 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 24 ) T27. 13403 2.62 In flashbacks , the Thinker observes Becky Sharpe , a woman with seemingly unending bad luck , and determines that she will be easily manipulated . In the present , Becky robs a bank and gets away when Barry slips on marbles . Harry arrives from Earth - 2 and tells Wally that Jesse has decided to break up with him in order to focus on her vigilantism . Cisco deduces that Becky is a metahuman with the power of favorable luck while inducing misfortune to others . Barry realizes that the portal he used to escape the Speed Force exposed an entire busload of people , including Becky and Deacon , to transformative dark matter . Harry informs Cisco that Jesse has expelled him from her crime - fighting team due to his attitude . Becky 's powers expand out of control , reactivating the particle accelerator , which Harry deliberately allows , nullifying Becky 's powers and leading to her incarceration . Cisco and Harry identify twelve new metahumans created on the bus and the latter suspects that an unknown party has manipulated the events surrounding Barry 's return . Wally decides to leave on a journey to find himself . The Thinker is revealed to be spying on S.T.A.R. Labs through the `` Samuroid '' helmet . Joe learns Cecile is pregnant . 73 `` Elongated Journey Into Night '' Tom Cavanagh Sterling Gates & Thomas Pound October 31 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 31 ) T27. 13404 1.99 Gypsy 's father , Breacher , attacks Cisco , vowing to hunt and kill him in 24 hours , allowing the romance should he survive . Team Flash learns that the bus driver was murdered and tracks down another passenger , Ralph Dibny , former corrupt CCPD detective exposed by Barry and currently an infamous private investigator . As two thugs attack Dibny , he is revealed to have the power to stretch . Caitlin stabilizes his powers with a serum . The team learns that Ralph has been blackmailing Mayor Bellows for adultery , with the latter revealed to have hired the thugs . Barry confronts Ralph for his actions while the latter scolds him , claiming to have been a `` good cop '' . He later stops blackmailing Bellows , who still attempts to kill him while Breacher mistakes the former for a Plastoid , the species that invaded Earth - 19 previously , and attacks him . Cisco intervenes and saves Ralph , whom Barry , having revealed his alter - ego , convinces to help arrest an escaping Bellows . Admiring Cisco 's gallantry , Breacher allows the relationship . Barry recruits Ralph for Team Flash and learns that someone named DeVoe instructed Ralph to watch Bellows . Barry remembers that Abra Kadabra and Savitar both mentioned DeVoe . Meanwhile , Caitlin finds a message on her apartment door . 74 5 `` Girls Night Out '' Laura Belsey Lauren Certo & Kristen Kim November 7 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 07 ) T27. 13405 2.38 While failing to track DeVoe , Team Flash is visited by Felicity , who joins Iris 's bachelorette party . Mocking Cisco 's plans for Barry 's bachelor party , Ralph takes the men to a strip club , where they learn that Cecile 's daughter , Joanie , is working . Joe confronts her , who states she is only doing feminist research . Ralph incites a brawl , leading to the men 's arrest until Harry posts bail . Meanwhile , Amunet 's enforcer , Norvock , demands Caitlin 's return and attacks the women when she refuses . Killer Frost emerges and repels him , later telling Iris that Caitlin accepted Amunet 's employment in exchange for the means to control Frost . Learning that Amunet is holding a metahuman she calls `` the Weeper '' , whose tears are a strong narcotic , prisoner and intends to sell him , Iris 's party decides to stop her . Though Caitlin refuses to join , she attacks Amunet when seeing her friends in danger . Using a strong magnet , the team robs Amunet 's metal shards , leaving her powerless . Iris dissuades Frost from killing Amunet , who promises revenge . Both parties refuse to tell each other about their adventures . Iris asks Caitlin to be her maid of honor while Joe convinces Joanie to tell Cecile about her research . DeVoe captures the Weeper . 75 6 `` When Harry Met Harry ... '' Brent Crowell Jonathan Butler & Gabriel Garza November 14 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 14 ) T27. 13406 2.46 Barry trains Ralph to use his abilities , with Cisco making a stretchable suit for him . Another bus metahuman , a Lakota Sioux Native named Mina Chayton , who can animate statues , starts attacking Central City & stealing pieces of a Black Bison necklace , which she claims belongs to her tribe . When Barry and Ralph catch up to her , she attacks Barry with a caveman statue and attempts a getaway . Ralph chooses to stop her , but a little girl is injured in the process . Ralph regrets his actions , but is comforted by Barry . Chayton escapes CCPD , going after the last necklace piece held at the museum . When Barry and Ralph confront her , she brings a dinosaur skeleton to life . Barry arrests Chayton while Ralph saves a security guard from the skeleton . Later , Ralph reveals he mailed the necklace back to Chayton 's tribe , before visiting the little girl in the hospital , using his abilities to entertain her . Meanwhile , Harry , trying to make friends , works with his doppelgangers of alternate Earths , The Council of Wells . They figure out that DeVoe is a man named Clifford DeVoe . Barry and Joe head to DeVoe 's house , to find out that he is a middle - aged man in a wheelchair . 76 7 `` Therefore I Am '' David McWhirter Eric Wallace & Thomas Pound November 21 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 21 ) T27. 13407 2.20 Barry and Joe interrogate DeVoe and his wife to try and get more information . In flashbacks , DeVoe and his wife build a thinking cap to improve his brain capacity , powering it through the particle accelerator explosion . DeVoe 's increased brain power accelerates his amyotrophic lateral sclerosis , forcing his wife to build him a special chair to keep him alive . Barry discovers the camera in the Samuroid head and goes to DeVoe 's house , narrowly avoiding being caught by DeVoe 's wife . Barry later confronts DeVoe , who reveals his true identity , leading to Cisco dubbing him `` The Thinker '' . Wally returns to Team Flash from Blue Valley . 77 8 `` Crisis on Earth - X , Part 3 '' Dermott Downs Story by : Andrew Kreisberg & Marc Guggenheim Teleplay by : Todd Helbing November 28 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 28 ) T27. 13408 2.82 Barry , Oliver , Sara , Alex , Martin and Jax wake up in a Nazi concentration camp on Earth - X wearing power dampeners . The arriving SS Sturmbannführer is revealed to be the Earth - X doppelgänger of Quentin Lance , who plans to execute them , but they are saved by Citizen Cold ( the Earth - X doppelgänger of Leonard Snart ) and Ray Terrill . Snart and Terrill take them to the headquarters of the Freedom Fighters , where the team meets the resistance movement 's leader , General Schott ( Winn Schott 's Earth - X doppelgänger ) . They learn that the only way back to Earth - 1 is through a temporal gateway in a research facility , which Schott plans to blow up to strand Dark Arrow ( Oliver 's Earth - X doppelgänger ) on Earth - 1 . Oliver disguises himself as Dark Arrow to infiltrate the facility and discovers the Nazi doomsday device against parallel Earths is a militarized timeship called Wellenreiter . Barry and Ray battle the Freedom Fighters ' Red Tornado to stop it from destroying the gateway while the rest of the team enters the facility to reactivate its portal , during which Stein is shot and gravely wounded . On Earth - 1 , Eobard Thawne prepares to perform surgery on Kara to save Overgirl . Felicity and Iris try to stop him , but are captured . This episode continues a crossover event that begins on Supergirl season 3 episode 8 and Arrow season 6 episode 8 , and concludes on Legends of Tomorrow season 3 episode 8 . 78 9 `` Do n't Run '' Stefan Pleszczynski Sam Chalsen & Judalina Neira December 5 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 05 ) T27. 13409 2.22 While out Christmas shopping , Barry is ambushed and kidnapped by DeVoe while Caitlin is kidnapped from Jitters by Amunet . Iris claims they have to look for both of them , despite Harry 's claim that they have insufficient time and resources and that they can only afford to search for one . Barry is held in DeVoe 's lair . Caitlin is forced by Amunet to perform surgery on a metahuman named Dominic Lanse , who can read minds . They try to escape , but Amunet blocks their exit . Caitlin manages to briefly incapacitate Amunet , and she and Dominic flee the building they are being held in . Once outside , they are rescued by Cisco and Ralph , as Iris has chosen to focus on finding Caitlin . Barry manages to escape from DeVoe . Team Flash celebrates Christmas at the West house and Dominic joins them . Barry gets a security alert from his apartment . When he arrives , he receives a phone call from Dominic , who reveals that Amunet re-kidnapped Dominic and DeVoe has transferred his consciousness into Dominic 's body . Barry discovers DeVoe 's original body dead on his apartment floor and he realizes DeVoe has framed him for his `` murder '' ; the police arrive , and Barry lets himself get arrested , not wanting to leave Iris again . 79 10 `` The Trial of The Flash '' Philip Chipera Lauren Certo & Kristen Kim January 16 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 16 ) T27. 13410 2.51 Barry stands trial for the murder of Clifford DeVoe , with Cecile representing him . Cisco and Joe have to leave during the trial for a meta investigation , in which a meta caused people to collapse . Singh reveals to Joe he is appearing as a witness for the prosecution against Barry . The meta is eventually discovered as Neil Borman , who is a meta who produces radiation , which is causing the illness and collapsing . Barry takes him on , but is ill equipped to deal with the situation . Cisco and Killer Frost travel to the scene where Caitlin tries to freeze Borman , who quickly defrosts and incapacitates Caitlin . Barry creates a vacuum seal around Borman to contain the radiation , with Cisco transporting the radiation to the dead Earth - 15 , draining the meta and defeating him . Barry is eventually found guilty by the jury and is sentenced to life in prison . 80 11 `` The Elongated Knight Rises '' Alexandra La Roche Sterling Gates & Thomas Pound January 23 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 23 ) T27. 13411 2.12 Barry uses his speed to secretly help the guards contain the other inmates during a prison riot . He also befriends Dave Ratchet , his father 's former cellmate . The next day , Barry meets Axel Walker who was later broken out of prison by his mother Zoey Clark , his father 's one - time partner Prank . Axel challenges Ralph by threatening to cause chaos in the city . Ralph attempts to stop him but is wounded by Axel and is evacuated by Cisco . Ralph sneaks into the prison to talk to Barry about how scared he is . Barry reassures him that being a hero is n't about not being scared , but about having the ability to rise above your fear . Cisco and Caitlin go to rescue the hostages , but get captured by Axel and Zoey , who intend to kill them . Ralph arrives , and attempts to shield the two from an acid shower , until Wells manages to hack into the shower system to neutralize its acidity . Iris visits Barry in prison , where they reaffirm their love for each other . Ralph and Cisco go to get coffee , where they meet the excitable girl from the wedding . The girl writes in her journal , where she appears to be writing in the language Barry was using when he came out of the Speed Force . 81 12 `` Honey , I Shrunk Team Flash '' Chris Peppe Sam Chalsen & Judalina Neira January 30 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 30 ) T27. 13412 2.60 Cecile develops telepathic abilities as a result of her pregnancy , combined with dormant dark matter in her cells , which Caitlin assures her should be temporary . In prison , Barry learns that Ratchet is innocent of a robbery - homicide that was actually committed by Sylbert Rundine fifteen years prior . Barry asks the team to look into the case . Rundine turns out to be a bus meta with the ability to shrink and enlarge objects , and he shrinks Cisco and Ralph while escaping . Harry 's attempted cure backfires , and Caitlin determines that if they are not re-enlarged within a certain period of time , their bodies will explode . The team confronts Rundine at a warehouse , where Harry tricks him into re-enlarging Ralph and Cisco . Rundine is arrested , but refuses to confess to the earlier crime . Barry gathers that even if Ratchet went free , he would be as unhappy in the city as he is in prison ; he wishes to live in a secluded Chinese village called Jiaju , but fears he will never get there . Barry then uses his speed to take Ratchet to Jiaju , where he can live out his dream . After discovering Barry is the Flash , the prison 's warden , Gregory Wolfe , locks Barry in his private metahuman wing , intending to sell him to Amunet . 82 13 `` True Colors '' Tara Nicole Weyr Jonathan Butler & Gabriel Garza February 6 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 06 ) T27. 13413 2.28 Wolfe plans to sell Barry and the imprisoned bus metas ( Ramsey Deacon , Becky Sharpe , Mina Chaytan , and Sylbert Rundine ) to Amunet , so they plan to escape . Cecile discovers Wolfe 's plans after reading his mind . Ralph encounters a former colleague and his negative interaction with him prompts the discovery that he can shapeshift . His lack of mastery of the new ability prevents his attempt to foil Amunet 's deal with Wolfe . Barry helps the metas escape the power dampeners , but they are cornered by Wolfe and Amunet . DeVoe arrives and again uses his chair to extract the metas ' abilities , before transferring his mind into Sharpe 's body . He then crushes Wolfe 's skull as Marlize looks on in horror ; Amunet flees . Ralph uses his shapeshifting ability to appear as the original DeVoe at Barry 's appeal , claiming that he was unconscious at Barry 's loft but not dead , which clears Barry 's name . Team Flash realizes that DeVoe is only stealing powers from metahumans who were on the bus when the dark matter wave was unleashed , which means he will likely target Ralph as well . Back at the DeVoes ' house , their marriage continues to deteriorate , and DeVoe drugs his wife with the Weeper 's tears to maintain her devotion towards him . 83 14 `` Subject 9 '' Ralph Hemecker Mike Alber & Gabe Snyder February 27 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 27 ) T27. 13414 2.12 Barry is put on indefinite leave at the CCPD due to his connection with the DeVoe case . The team encounter another bus metahuman named Izzy with sound wave abilities , amplified by her violin . She manages to use her abilities when DeVoe ( inside Sharpe 's body ) comes to claim her . Barry and Ralph help to train Izzy to refine her abilities , which proves difficult when she gets hurt . Eventually DeVoe shows up once again , using Dominic 's and Becky 's abilities to make Barry experience a brain aneurysm , while using Rundine 's abilities to incapacitate Ralph . DeVoe then once again uses the chair to transfer his mind into Izzy 's body and escapes . Both Ralph and Barry comfort each other over their respective losses : Barry being let go from the police force and Ralph losing Izzy to DeVoe . These losses enforce both Barry 's and Ralph 's determination to bring DeVoe down and save the three remaining metas . 84 15 `` Enter Flashtime '' Gregory Smith Todd Helbing & Sterling Gates March 6 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 06 ) T27. 13415 2.04 Jesse comes to Earth - 1 to have a talk with her dad . Eco-terrorist Veronica Dale sets off a nuclear bomb , which Barry tries to stop , entering a form of superspeed known as Flashtime , where everything is frozen . However , the bomb has already detonated , and he and Jesse can not stop it or save everyone with superspeed . Jay Garrick comes from Earth - 3 to help , but they are still unable to stop it . Barry remains in Flashtime for hours , bringing each of his friends into it , in an attempt to find a solution ; they discuss options such as freezing it or sending it to another Earth , but none of those solutions prove to be viable . Eventually , Iris gives him the idea to retrieve the Quark Sphere from the Speed Force to send a blast lightning through the bomb , enough to disable it . Barry does so , and throws the Sphere back into the Speed Force , saving Central City . Jay admits he is retiring and going to train a new `` female '' speedster . Jesse and Jay return to their Earths , and Caitlin and Wells go for a coffee , where they encounter the mysterious girl . 85 16 `` Run , Iris , Run '' Harry Jierjian Eric Wallace March 13 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 13 ) T27. 13416 2.09 A metahuman with fire powers tries to rob Central City bank . Another bus meta named Matthew Kim touches the metahuman , which causes his powers to transfer to another individual . When Joe , Iris and Barry turn up to ask Kim a few questions , Barry and Iris come into contact with Kim , causing Barry to lose his speed and Iris to gain superspeed . Inspired by Thawne , Harry plans to build his own thinking cap to outwit DeVoe . With their roles reversed , Iris becomes Central City 's hero speedster , while Barry must learn to act as team leader . The new metahuman demands money and terrorizes the city with his fire powers . Using Wells ' thinking cap , the Team comes up with the idea for Iris to create a tidal wave , negating the flames and defeating the meta . Back at S.T.A.R. Labs , Kim touches Iris and Barry again , restoring the Flash 's speed . At home , Iris admits that while she did enjoy having superspeed , Central City needs the light that Barry was , and she is happy being team leader . Wells uses his thinking cap once more , determining the final two bus metas are Janet Petty and Edwin Gauss . 86 17 `` Null and Annoyed '' Kevin Smith Lauren Certo & Kristen Kim April 10 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 10 ) T27. 13417 1.82 Barry and Ralph train to defeat DeVoe , with Barry becoming annoyed at Ralph 's apparent inability to be serious . The team manages to locate another bus meta , Janet Petty . When Barry and Ralph confront her , it is revealed that Petty can manipulate a person 's gravitational pull , which she demonstrates on Barry . Fearing once again that Ralph is not taking things seriously , Barry refuses to work with him . Ralph reveals his comedic attitude is due to a difficult childhood where his father abandoned him , causing him to make jokes whenever he is scared or under pressure . Barry relents and they go to stop Janet at a gala event . Janet uses her powers on Barry , causing him to float into the atmosphere . Barry tells the team to trust Ralph to improvise . Ralph detains Janet , then becomes a giant airbag to allow Barry to land safely . DeVoe 's wife discovers he has been drugging her , so she will continue to assist him . Breacher comes to Earth - 1 to ask Cisco for help as some of his powers have failed . Harry takes the thinking cap to Thawne 's time vault to recharge it and activates Gideon . 87 18 `` Lose Yourself '' Hanelle Culpepper Jonathan Butler & Gabriel Garza April 17 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 17 ) T27. 13418 1.88 Team Flash track down the final bus meta Edwin Gauss , but are followed by the Samuroid , who injures Caitlin . The team rush back to Star Labs to regroup and heal . Caitlin reveals to Iris that Killer Frost is activated by her adrenal gland , and she is working on a way to separate them . Harry comes up with a tuning fork weapon that mimics Izzy 's abilities in order to defeat DeVoe . Ralph reveals to Barry that he is n't afraid of losing his own life , but of Team Flash losing theirs , as he considers them family . Wells is shown to be addicted to the Thinking Cap , which Joe helps him deal with . Ralph takes the fork , with the intent to go with Edwin to kill DeVoe , which Barry argues against . Eventually , DeVoe manages to take over Edwin 's mind , and as well takes the abilities of Janet Petty and Matthew Kim , before transferring his mind into Ralph 's body . The team try to stop him , but DeVoe incapacitates them , and alters Caitlin 's DNA , removing the dark matter and Killer Frost , before leaving . Back at his lair , DeVoe uses Ralph 's morphing abilities to morph back into his original form , while he and Marlize plan their next move to destroy Team Flash . 88 19 `` Fury Rogue '' Rachel Talalay Joshua V. Gilbert & Jeff Hersh April 24 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 24 ) TBA 1.90 With DeVoe moving forwards with his plans , Team Flash decide to secure Neil Borman . Barry and Cisco travel to Earth X to recruit Leo Snart as a backup , but are followed to Earth 1 by the Earth X doppelganger of Laurel Lance . Team Flash plan to deliver Borman to a safe ARGUS facility , using a suit to contain the radiation , with Snart on hand , in case Borman goes nuclear . Snart agrees to help , but claims he can only stay for 24 hours , as he is due to get married to Ray Terrill . DeVoe attempts to intercept the transfer , but he and Team Flash are further ambushed by Earth X Laurel , who kidnaps Caitlin , Borman and Joe , holding them at CCPD . Snart learns about Ralph , and convinces Barry to allow himself to grieve his fallen allies , which Barry eventually does , giving him strength to defeat Laurel . Lyla transfers Borman to another facility and Leo returns to Earth X . Cisco and Wells come up with a plan to boost Wells ' thinking cap . Devoe goes more into his `` god - complex '' ; stating that human emotion is a weakness , causing Marlize to doubt him . 89 20 `` Therefore She Is '' Rob J. Greenlea Sterling Gates & Thomas Pound May 1 , 2018 ( 2018 - 05 - 01 ) TBA TBD 90 21 `` Harry and the Harrisons '' Kevin Mock Judalina Neira & Lauren Certo May 8 , 2018 ( 2018 - 05 - 08 ) TBA TBD 91 22 `` Think Fast '' Viet Nguyen Sam Chalsen & Kristen Kim May 15 , 2018 ( 2018 - 05 - 15 ) TBA TBD 92 23 `` We Are the Flash '' TBA TBA May 22 , 2018 ( 2018 - 05 - 22 ) TBA TBD