The Octopod is their mobile home base and the biggest vehicle . It is built to look like a giant octopus . The GUP - A is propeller - powered and Captain Barnacles ' favorite . It is built to look like an anglerfish . Kwazii 's favorite , the GUP - B is a turbo sub so is the fastest of all GUPs . It is built to look like a tiger shark . The strong GUP - C has a towline and is powerful enough to tow an elephant seal . It can also be used as an icebreaker when fitted with a special reinforced prow . It is built to look like a blue whale . Multi-purpose GUP - D has two claws , two drills and six legs . It is also Tweak 's favorite . It is built to look like a manta ray ( or a crab when legged ) . The GUP - E is an ambulance GUP and colored green . A tank behind can be filled with water for creatures with gills . It is built to look like a guppy . The GUP - F was a pedal - powered metal - framed vehicle only seen in series 1 , episode 10 , Octonauts and the Speedy Sailfish , used to round up the runaway GUPs A-E . It was built to look like a clownfish . In the episode `` The Artificial Reef '' the GUP - F is destroyed by a hurricane and is converted into an artificial reef . In the same episode , it is also revealed by Tweak that it was the very first prototype GUP built . The GUP - H is built to look like a dragonfly , to soar above the sea , and watch the animals hop in and out of the water . It is first seen in series 4 , episode 1 , The Poison Dart Frogs . The GUP - I is an polar exploration station and rugged vehicle first seen in the 8th special , Operation Deep Freeze . It is built to look like a water bear . The GUP - K is a half air - boat , half - tank vehicle that can float on surface and is first seen in the 9th and latest special , The Great Swamp Search to save Tweak 's hometown the Everglades from fire . It is built to look like a crocodile or an alligator . The GUP - S is an Antarctic exploration vehicle first seen in the 6th special episode The Over Under Adventure . Like the GUP - X , it can split in 2 sections , with the front part forming an amphibious snowmobile called the Octo - Sled . The Gup - S is built to look like a swordfish or narwhal , with a tusk - like ice - penetrating heated drill at the front . The GUP - V is a vehicle designed by the Vegimals in the 5th special episode , A Very Vegimal Christmas . It is shaped like a train . The GUP - X is a powerful and sturdy tracked vehicle presented to Captain Barnacles as a Christmas present from Tweak . It can split into 3 sections , for instance , a glider , the ' Octo - Ski ' and its central main section with the caterpillar tracks . It is first seen in series 1 , episode 52 , The Great Christmas Rescue . It is built to look like a horseshoe crab . The Deep Sea Octolab is a moveable base from which the deepest parts of the ocean can be studied and first appears in the 4th special episode , The Mariana Trench Adventure . It is dome - shaped and stands on springy legs to cope with subterranean tremors .