No . Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) `` Burnt Food '' Seth Gordon David Shore September 25 , 2017 ( 2017 - 09 - 25 ) 11.22 On the way to begin his surgical residency at San Jose St. Bonaventure Hospital , Dr. Shaun Murphy witnesses an airport sign fall and shatter glass onto a young boy . Another doctor is first on the scene and begins applying pressure to the child 's neck . Shaun tells him that he 's pressing on the wrong part of the neck for a child . With his unique ability to visualize the internal body and using improvised methods and tools , Shaun is able to stabilize the boy . On the way to the hospital , Shaun notices that the boy 's vitals have changed . Hospital staff are alerted to the arrival of the boy . Shaun tries to tell the doctors about the boy 's vitals , stating that he needs an echo - cardiogram . The doctors disagree and begin surgery . While operating , something goes wrong and Claire Browne , a surgical resident , recalls Shaun mentioning an echo . Thanks to Shaun 's diagnosis , the boy 's life is saved . Meanwhile , in a hospital board meeting , Dr. Aaron Glassman , president of the hospital , tries to convince the board to hire Shaun , despite his autism . Flashbacks give us a picture of Shaun 's childhood and his motivation for becoming a doctor . `` Mount Rushmore '' Mike Listo David Shore October 2 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 02 ) 10.93 Dr. Melendez is doing rounds with Dr. Browne and Dr. Kalu . Melendez calls out Shaun for arriving late on his first full day . A middle aged woman is brought into the ER with abdominal pain . Shaun immediately diagnoses a malignant tumor . Melendez assigns Browne as his number two for the surgery while giving Shaun `` scut work '' - all the work that residents hate doing . On the operating table , the doctors find the tumor is much bigger than expected and has encased all of her arteries . Looking at biopsy results , the residents find out that she is suffering from leiomyosarcoma , making surgery seemingly impossible . Shaun 's ability to visualize the internal organs allows him to figure out that removing one of her kidneys would allow a better look , enough to view and possibly remove the mass . To Browne 's dismay , Kalu suggests Shaun 's idea to Melendez , getting the credit for the idea . Meanwhile , Shaun 's attention to detail in his scut work gets him into trouble . Instead of releasing patients ready for discharge , Shaun rechecks them and orders additional tests . Upon learning this , Melendez assigns Nurse Freydey as Shaun 's `` boss '' for the day . Later , after rechecking a discharged young girl 's test results , Shaun races to her home . The parents are annoyed that he 's bothering them after midnight and at first refuse to let him in . Shaun insists he will not leave before seeing their daughter . His diagnosis is correct and they must rush her to the hospital for surgery to save her life . `` Oliver '' John Dahl Bill Rotko October 9 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 09 ) 10.69 Shaun and Claire fly to San Francisco Municipal Hospital to get a patient a liver . They ca n't fly on their way back due to fog and are forced to use a police escort . Problems keep coming one after the other ; first , the liver 's temperature went above the required maximum , forcing them to have a sudden stop at a local store , where they cool it by submerging it in slush . As they proceed with their journey , Shaun discovers that the liver has a clot . With only two hours of viability left , the duo decide to perform an operation on the way in order to remove the clot and flash the left lobe , to protect it from the ice bath . Back at San Jose St. Bonaventure Hospital , Chuck , the recipient of the liver , is discovered to have alcohol in his system ; a likelihood that he might be moved to the bottom of the list . Chuck later confesses that he actually took a drink on his daughter 's graduation . In order to protect its reputation and the future patients , the hospital decides to move Chuck to the bottom of the list . To their dismay , Shaun and Claire arrive back , only to find out that the liver has to be taken to another patient in another hospital . `` Pipes '' Steven DePaul Thomas L. Moran October 16 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 16 ) 10.60 Through an ultrasound , an expectant woman 's baby is diagnosed with a tumor at his tail bone ; the mom has Antiphospholipid syndrome , making surgery a high risk . Dr. Melendez suggests termination of the pregnancy but Shaun interjects by suggesting clotting pre-operatively with an infusion of unfractionated heparin . Things are further complicated when the woman and eventually her husband refuse to terminate the baby . During surgery , there is a complication ; a blood clot at the artery in her heart . Dr. Kalu has an idea that they should stop her heart and put her on a bypass machine for the duration of the surgery ; that way she wo n't have an heart attack , which turns out to be successful and the doctors reveal she 's carrying a baby boy . With a patient needing a boil lanced , Dr. Melendez assigns Shaun and Dr. Browne on the case , as a punishment for being late . The patient turns out to be a pornographic actress ; she does n't have a boil but a large Bartholin gland abscess and they prep her for surgery the following day . They successfully drain the abscess but discover that she has a Perineal myoma underneath . The fibroid tumor is wrapped around the nerve that facilitates feeling in her genitals . Therefore , the doctors have to remove the tumor but they have to sever the nerve ; hence , losing all feeling in her genitals . Shaun comes up the idea of grafting the distal end of the pudendal nerve to the branch of the femoral cutaneous nerve from her inner thigh ; this will lead to her losing feeling in her thigh while preserving feeling in her genitals . 5 `` Point Three Percent '' Larry Teng David Hoselton October 23 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 23 ) 10.39 Shaun notices a young boy with an indubitable resemblance to his deceased brother Steve , forming a bond with him . The boy 's name is actually Evan and was brought to the hospital by his parents for reportedly breaking an arm ; unbeknownst to Evan , he is in fact suffering from stage 4 Osteosarcoma . Shaun later suspects that he might have been misdiagnosed with cancer but indeed was suffering from Langerhans cell histiocytosis . In order not to give both Evan and his parents false hopes , Shaun decides to lie , attempting to perform a bone marrow aspiration , but he is caught red - handed by the parents . Subsequently , Evan starts coughing out blood , sending him to the OR . While on the operating table , Dr. Neil Menendez and Dr. Claire Browne discover that the cancer had metastasized , undoubtable proof that he is indeed suffering with terminal cancer . The other doctors are trying to find a prognosis of a 66 - year old man , brought to the hospital by his estranged son , with an allergy causing him to have convulsions . Dr. Browne later finds out that the man is suffering from Echinococcus , a cyst form of tapeworms . Saddened by Evan 's fate , which Evan has in fact known about the whole time , Shaun reads Evan the final few pages of To Kill a Mockingbird , a book of Steve 's that he never finished reading before he died . 6 `` Not Fake '' Michael Patrick Jann Simran Baidwan October 30 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 30 ) 10.60 Shaun and the rest of the residents are working the graveyard shift when numerous casualties from a wedding bus crash come in . Among the victims are a woman with severe , visible burns , on whom Dr. Kalu tries an experimental procedure , and a young man with a damaged leg who can either have it amputated , or have an artificial bone inserted . The relative newness of the latter procedure causes a conflict between the man 's parent and his soon - to - be bride . 7 `` 22 Steps '' David Straiton Johanna Lee November 13 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 13 ) 10.14 Shaun encounters Liam , an autistic patient brought in to San Jose St. Bonaventure Hospital . Having to face prejudice from the young man 's parents , Dr. Melendez defends him for the first time and acknowledges his exceptional abilities . On Dr. Glassman 's directive , Claire continues her therapy sessions in order to curb her guilt over the death of a patient she inadvertently caused in the previous episode . On the other hand , Dr. Kalu gets a 73 - year - old man with severe chest pains thus needing urgent medical attention and a pacemaker but his desire is to die ; in order to give him hope on life , Dr. Kalu does everything he can to have him accept treatment , to no avail in which the latter finally lets him sign the DNR . 8 `` Apple '' Nestor Carbonell David Renaud November 20 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 20 ) 9.97 While shopping at a grocery mart for apples , a robbery takes place . With Shaun 's communication limitations , he puts the lives of two customers on a first date at risk , leading to a young woman getting shot . Shaun 's neighbor Lea hugs him after he admits that he made a mistake with someone getting hurt . During surgery , Dr. Lim questions Claire 's ability to not let her emotions get the better of her because of a racist patient . This leads to a fight between the two with Dr. Lim ordering Claire to leave the operating room . Claire puts her emotions in check to save the life of the racist patient much to the satisfaction and delight of Dr. Lim . 9 `` Intangibles '' Bronwen Hughes Karen Struck November 27 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 27 ) 9.25 The team takes on the case of a young boy from the Congo who has severe congenital heart anomalies ; Murphy 's latest encounter with his neighbor Lea has him confused . He takes flirting lessons from Dr. Browne and notes and charts what he sees in regards to the `` flirting trifecta '' . Meanwhile , Dr. Browne along with a lab tech search for a misplaced tissue sample from a woman with possible throat cancer . 10 `` Sacrifice '' Michael Patrick Jann Lloyd Gilyard Jr . December 4 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 04 ) 9.03 In Dr. Glassman 's office , Shaun sees the therapist hired to help him with in - home visits . He reluctantly agrees to meet with her , but changes his mind after meeting a new patient , Bobby Ato , who convinces him to stop letting people tell him what he can and ca n't do . Ato is a champion gamer , who is in St. Bonaventure for surgery to repair torn ligaments in his left arm . After an MRI , cancer is discovered , making an additional surgery much more complicated and results in doubt . Shaun avoids meeting with his therapist by sleeping in the hospital custodian 's closet at night . Finally , a confrontation with Glassman in the hospital lobby leads to Shaun having a meltdown , causing him to strike Glassman in the face and run out of the hospital . Meanwhile , Claire runs into an uncomfortable situation with a new doctor , Dr. Matt Coyle , who makes unwanted sexual advances toward her . After telling Jared about this , he confronts the doctor and physically threatens him . As a result , Jared is fired . Later , Dr. Melendez and Jessica have dinner with her father . In a tense situation , Melendez criticizes Mr. Preston as living off his father 's money instead of contributing to society . When Preston offers to pay for their wedding so Jessica can quit her job and start a family , an angry Melendez calls him a `` parasite . '' The next day , Melendez apologizes to Jessica for his remarks and learns that she does n't want to have children . 11 `` Islands Part One '' Bill D'Elia Thomas L. Moran & William Rotko January 8 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 08 ) 8.30 12 `` Islands Part Two '' Cherie Nowlan Thomas L. Moran & William Rotko January 15 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 15 ) TBD 13 `` Seven Reasons '' TBA TBA January 22 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 22 ) TBD