Carli D'Amato ( Emily Head ) is the main love interest of Simon . She demonstrates a good deal of influence over her peers , including school bullies . She and Simon have been friends since the age of eight , and this likely accounts for Simon being able to approach a girl in such a different social circle . Generally , Carli has little romantic interest in Simon but uses his obvious infatuation to her own advantage . Charlotte Hinchcliffe ( Emily Atack ) is the most attractive and popular girl in the school . She is very confident and a year above the four boys . Unlike most of the popular girls Charlotte is very friendly and genuinely likes Will and most other classmates . She mentions to Will that she has had `` eleven lovers already '' , and is held in very high regard by the boys . Mr. Gilbert ( Greg Davies ) is an archetypical comprehensive school teacher . Misanthropic and permanently bitter , he has no interest in his work and treats his pupils with utter contempt . As head of sixth form he answers to the headmaster of the school . Physically he is very tall and strongly built which everyone finds quite intimidating , being described by Will as a `` lunatic giant '' . He has a biting wit and sarcasm which he uses to convey his hatred of his job and the children for whose care he is responsible . Will attempts to endear himself often with Mr Gilbert and is rebuffed . Mr Gilbert evidently wants a quiet life and rather than ensuring fairness between the children he merely defuses situations and moves on , often leaving things unresolved . Mark Donovan ( Henry Lloyd - Hughes ) is Will 's nemesis , often picking on him to fulfill his role as the school bully . Ironically , Donovan is often shown to be somewhat sensitive , and is polite and quiet in front of parents or teachers . When he reveals his sensitive side to Will , he threatens him with death if he speaks of it . Polly McKenzie ( Belinda Stewart - Wilson ) is Will 's Mum . She is found to be very attractive which is mentioned a lot throughout the series . Neil has often asked Will if he can ask her out , with Will always saying no . Pamela Cooper ( Robin Weaver ) is Simon 's Mum . Alan Cooper ( Martin Trenaman ) is Simon 's Dad . Terry Cartwright ( David Schaal ) is Jay 's Dad . He is often found making fun of Jay and not taking him serious about his sexual exploits . He is very similar to Jay in ways as they have a similar sense of humour as Jay gets multiple traits from him . Kevin Sutherland ( Alex Macqueen ) is Neil 's Dad . He is divorced and is often portrayed as a closeted gay man which he always denies . The boys constantly make fun of Neil because of this . Big John ( John Seaward ) is a fellow student . John is one of the new kids who start school on the same day as will . He is often referred to as one of the freaks and is often seen as a social outcast who the boys try to avoid . Tara Brown ( Hannah Tointon ) is Simon 's girlfriend in Series 3 .