Kelly Palmer , Deacon 's wife ( played by Merrin Dungey ) is Carrie 's best friend . She has two children with Deacon . Kelly and Deacon experience some serious relationship problems , much more serious than the petty arguments between Doug and Carrie . On one occasion , Deacon mentions being hit in the head with a frying pan . She was absent from the show in 2002 because she needed to take a break from the series ; during this period , her character was estranged from Deacon and engaged in a brief affair . Lou Ferrigno ( seasons 3 -- 9 ; himself ) is the actor known for his role as The Incredible Hulk . Ferrigno and his wife are neighbors of the Heffernans . A running gag on the series is that the neighbors ( including the Heffernans ) are fascinated by him and it gets on his nerves . Lou does not like people telling him Hulk jokes . Other characters often make reference to his previous role as the Hulk . For example , at one point Doug is angry and Lou tries to calm him down ; Doug retorts with the famous line from the Hulk series `` Do n't make me angry ; you would n't like me when I am angry '' . Also , in the episode `` Gym Neighbors '' , it is revealed that he has a video game addiction . Supervisor Patrick O'Boyle ( seasons 3 -- 9 ; played by Sam McMurray ) is section supervisor for the fictional International Parcel Service . He is Doug 's boss and friend throughout most of the show , whom he mostly refers to as `` Heffernan '' . He is in most IPS scenes throughout the show . He is also a recovering alcoholic and gambling addict . A character named Supervisor Jack O'Boyle ( played by John F. O'Donohue ) appears in an episode from season one ( `` White Collar '' , 1999 ) . Raymond `` Ray '' Barone ( seasons 1 , 2 & 8 ; 5 episodes ; played by Ray Romano ) is Doug 's Long Island friend . Romano and James appearing on each other 's shows was part of a network program crossover , as CBS aired both Everybody Loves Raymond and The King of Queens . Romano 's appearance was successful enough to warrant all other lead characters ( Patricia Heaton , Brad Garrett , Doris Roberts , and Peter Boyle ) to appear as their respective characters as well . Appropriately , the four episodes featuring Romano contained `` Ray '' in their titles ( `` Road Rayge '' , `` Rayny Day '' , `` Dire Strayts '' , and `` Raygin ' Bulls '' ) . Doug Pruzan ( season 2 -- 6 ; played by Alex Skuby ) is Carrie 's boss and a lawyer at a Manhattan law firm . Veronica Olchin ( season 1 ; played by Grace Zabriskie , seasons 5 -- 9 played by Anne Meara ) Spence 's mother . She is portrayed by Zabriske in her first appearance in `` S'aint Valentines '' , but portrayed by Meara for the rest of the series . Veronica has an on - again / off - again relationship with Arthur , who is portrayed by Meara 's real - life husband , Jerry Stiller . Meara had previously appeared in `` S'aint Valentines '' as a woman who flirts with Arthur . Arthur and Veronica marry in the series finale , but divorced a year later .