Connecticut had tied the tournament record for points in a game early in the day with 116 points but Baylor set a new record , scoring 119 points against Texas Southern , appearing in their first ever tournament . The Bears scored the first 22 points of the game before Texas Southern could score . In addition to setting a record for the largest number of points in an NCAA tournament game , Baylor shattered the margin of victory record , previously 74 points , by holding Texas Southern to 30 points , thus setting a new margin of victory record at 89 points . California opened up an early lead against LSU , extending the lead to as many as 10 points . LSU played from behind much of the game but closed the lead -- the teams were tied at 50 points each with just under a minute and a half left in the game . Cal 's Asha Thomas hit a three to give the Bears the lead . LSU had several chances to respond , but down by one point with 10 seconds left , LSU 's Alexis Hyder drove from the left side attempting to make a game winning layup but Kristine Anigwe was there and blocked the ball . There was a scramble for the ball which resulted in two foul shots for Anigwe who hit them both to give California a 55 -- 52 win . Fifth - seeded Tennessee led 12th seeded Dayton at the end of the first quarter 20 -- 9 , but Dayton responded with a 20 -- 9 run of their own to tie the game up to 29 points apiece at halftime . Tennessee took over again in the third quarter , but this time the Flyers were unable to respond in Tennessee finished with the win 66 -- 57 . 13th seeded Chattanooga kept the game close against fourth seeded Louisville for much of the game , but the Cardinals went on a 20 -- 6 run in the final quarter , led by Asia Durr , to open up a large lead the Mocs could never overcome . The Cardinals won 82 -- 62 . Oklahoma faced Gonzaga , a matchup between the 6 and 11 seeds . The Sooners started off strong and held a 13 - point lead at the end of the first quarter 2 -- 16 . That margin would match the final margin of victory , although the Bulldogs cut the lead to five points twice in the fourth quarter . Vionise Pierre - Louis was close to a triple - double for Oklahoma with 17 points nine rebounds and nine block shots . The final score was 75 -- 62 . Washington , the third seed , took on Montana State the 14 seed . Although Washington led early , they could n't create much separation between themselves and the Bobcats . Although Montana State 's Peyton Ferris is only 5'9 `` , she was asked to play in the post . Despite the size advantage of Washington she was effective and ended the game with 33 points . She fouled out with just under three minutes left in the game as fans of both teams gave her a standing ovation for her performance . Although Montana State kept the game reasonably close for the first 27 minutes , the Huskies eventually built a large lead and ended up with the 91 -- 63 win . DePaul played Northern Iowa in a match - up between the seven and 10 seeds . The Panthers scored first , but DePaul responded with a pair of 7 -- 0 runs to take a nine - point lead . DePaul brought Tanita Allen off the bench who hit her first five three - pointers en route to a 25 - point game to help the Blue Demons win the game 88 -- 67 . Mississippi State took on Troy in a 2 seed versus 15 seed match - up . The Bulldogs head coach Vic Schaefer dramatically changed his lineup after the loss in the SEC championship , having three starters come in off the bench , including Victoria Vivians for the first time in her career . Blair Schaefer , the coach 's daughter , recorded a career - high 21 points , helping her team to a 110 -- 69 victory .