No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) 27 `` The Whining '' Rich Correll Eric Schaar & David J. Booth October 5 , 2012 ( 2012 - 10 - 05 ) 201 3.58 Rumors arise of a man named Grimm Holloran , a doorman with a strange personality . Grimm warns the Ross children not to trick - or - treat on the 13th floor because there are dangers beyond understanding . Too brave and cocky to believe in such words , Luke decides to trick - or - treat on the 13th floor with Zuri , despite Emma and Ravi 's deep fear of Grimm 's warning . Meanwhile , Jessie plans to submit her story to a famous newspaper journalist . Unfortunately , her abnormal tactics cause the Ross children to believe that she is a bloodthirsty maniac waiting to kill off anyone in her path . Tony tries to calm her down throughout the episode , but to no avail . Guest stars : Meshach Taylor as Grimm Hallorann , Chris Galya as Tony , Karsen Skinner as Spooky Twin # 1 , Kendel Skinner as Spooky Twin # 2 28 `` Green - Eyed Monsters '' Rich Correll Valerie Ahern & Christian McLaughlin October 26 , 2012 ( 2012 - 10 - 26 ) 202 2.67 Mrs. Kipling 's baby lizards have brought a lot of chaos in the Ross household . Ravi has barely gotten any sleep and he is constantly tired . He contracts Zuri as his part - time nanny in order to help him with the babies . Unfortunately , this causes a rift of trust between these two siblings . Meanwhile , Jessie and Tony go out on a date which Officer Petey crashes , much to Tony 's dismay . Later , Jessie joins a comedy improvise class alongside Petey . Tony is jealous because she is spending a lot of time with him , so he asks Emma to help him discover if Jessie is cheating on him by spying . Guest stars : Chris Galya as Tony , Joey Richter as Officer Petey , Kevin Michael Martin as Malcolm 29 `` Make New Friends , but Hide the Old '' Phill Lewis Sally Lapiduss & Erin Dunlap November 2 , 2012 ( 2012 - 11 - 02 ) 203 3.22 It is the beginning of the school year ; Jessie and Bertram could not be happier . On Emma 's first day of high school , she meets a rude , aggressive girl named Rosie . To Emma 's dismay , they are assigned to do an art project together and Rosie ends up embarrassing her . Meanwhile , Luke searches through his backpack and Kenny the Koala accidentally falls out . Random bullies witness the incident and laugh at him . Ravi takes the blame in order to leave Luke off the hook ; unfortunately , they start teasing him instead . Elsewhere , Zuri is upset because she has just started third grade and her homework is more difficult , so she refuses to do it . Feeling guilty and upset , Rosie attempts to apologize to Emma for embarrassing her , Luke reveals to everyone at Walden Academy Middle School that he owns Kenny , not Ravi , as the brothers kindly embrace and Zuri reveals why she did not complete her homework , forcing Jessie to cheer her up . Guest stars : Kelly Gould as Rosie , Amy Farrington as Ms. Devlin , Shanna Strong as Shelby , Evan Roe as Billy 30 `` 101 Lizards '' Bob Koherr Sally Lapiduss & Erin Dunlap November 9 , 2012 ( 2012 - 11 - 09 ) 205 3.02 When Ravi realizes he can not possibly take care of his twelve baby lizards , Jessie persuades him to give them up for adoption . After Ravi interviews many people , he does not approve because he wants to find the lizards good parents . Finally , a woman named Cassandra is interviewed and mentions how her boss is going to take them upstate to a loving home . Jessie and Ravi are horrified when they discover that Cassandra 's boss is Ms. Chesterfield . After a few misunderstandings , Jessie and the children are convinced that Ms. Chesterfield is turning the lizards into accessories , so they embark on a journey to rescue the lizards . As it turns out , Mrs. Chesterfield was actually going to have Mrs. Kipling 's babies live in her lizard sanctuary . Guest stars : Carolyn Hennesy as Mrs. Rhoda Chesterfield , Laura Spencer as Cassandra 31 5 `` Trashin ' Fashion '' Phill Lewis Valerie Ahern & Christian McLaughlin November 30 , 2012 ( 2012 - 11 - 30 ) 204 2.56 Christina returns to promote her new retro - 80s clothing line , Fersher Couture , at the same time Emma 's new anonymous fashion blog , Kitty Couture , is trending . When Emma looks at her over-the - top designs , she does not want to give her mother an honest review in order to spare Christina 's feelings . Meanwhile , Luke and Ravi compete to impress international supermodel , Diamond Bloodworth . Elsewhere , since Jessie is working as Christina 's assistant , Bertram takes over the duty of being the nanny and watches over Zuri . When Zuri finds out Bertram can not ride a bike , she becomes determined to teach him how to ride a bike . Guest stars : Christina Moore as Christina Ross , Kelly Gould as Rosie , True O'Brien as Diamond Bloodworth 32 6 `` Austin & Jessie & Ally All Star New Year '' Bob Koherr Wayne Conley & Mike Montesano & Ted Zizik December 7 , 2012 ( 2012 - 12 - 07 ) 207 4.81 Emma is beyond excited when she finds out that Austin Moon ( Ross Lynch ) is performing at Times Square . On New Year 's Eve , Jessie takes her to see Austin and to their luck , they bump into him , and meet the rest of the gang : Ally ( Laura Marano ) , Trish ( Raini Rodriguez ) , and Dez ( Calum Worthy ) . Plus , Jessie comes up with a brilliant plan on how to get Austin to perform on time . Later on , the gang shows up at their apartment , and Emma tells Jessie that if she helps them , he could record one of her songs and turn it into a big hit . When Ally reads Jessie 's lyrics , she thinks they are not good , so Jessie accidentally steals Zuri 's poem and takes credit for it . In the end , when Austin and Jessie are about to perform in Miami , she gives Zuri credit , and everybody is satisfied with Dez ' impressive music video . Guest star : Richard Whiten as Jimmy Starr Songs featured : `` Christmas Soul '' , `` Can You Feel It '' , `` Face 2 Face '' Note : This is a 46 - minute extended episode . The opening credit sequence is a combination of the opening credits of Austin & Ally and Jessie presenting the main cast of both shows with the theme songs and visuals of both shows interleaved , which was also the case for the later 2013 holiday crossover special between Jessie and Good Luck Charlie , Good Luck Jessie : NYC Christmas . 33 7 `` The Trouble with Jessie '' `` The Trouble with Tessie '' Bob Koherr David J. Booth & Eric Schaar January 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 01 - 11 ) 206 3.29 Jessie is worried that Tony will propose after he invites her out for a special evening to meet his parents , so she drags Zuri and her new friend to the dinner to keep him from doing anything romantic . Meanwhile , a boy named Stuart develops a huge crush on Zuri and she gets annoyed by him . Elsewhere , Emma and Bertram compete with Luke and Ravi to see who really owns the Ross screening room . Sadly , this causes a rift of trust between the pairs as they all seek revenge on each other . Luke and Ravi wind up trapped outside on the terrace , barely surviving and almost freezing to death . Emma and Bertram end up trapped in a rope net and Zuri tries to help them down with some children 's scissors to cut the rope lines and says that it takes hours to cut paper with it . Guest stars : Chris Galya as Tony , J.J. Totah as Stuart Wooten , Sandra Purpuro as Carmella Chicolini , Jimmy Smagula as Angelo Chicolini 34 8 `` Say Yes to the Messy Dress '' Kevin Chamberlin Adam Lapidus January 18 , 2013 ( 2013 - 01 - 18 ) 208 3.09 Jessie introduces the children to Miami Heat player Chris Bosh , who is going to be playing the New York Knicks . In order for the Knicks to win , Luke washes out the luck of Chris ' socks so he loses . Later on , Chris starts to lose his skills in basketball , much to Luke 's dismay . Meanwhile , a famous fashion designer sends Emma a dress to review on her fashion blog ; however , things go awry when Jessie accidentally damages the dress . Guest star : Chris Bosh as himself 35 9 `` Teacher 's Pest '' Shannon Flynn Sally Lapiduss & Erin Dunlap February 1 , 2013 ( 2013 - 02 - 01 ) 210 3.84 Zuri is having problems with her teacher , Ms. Falkenberg , so Jessie decides to volunteer as the classroom aide . Jessie tries to become the teacher 's pet , but accidentally ends up becoming her best friend . Now , Jessie has to go along with it in order for Zuri to do better in school . Meanwhile , Ravi has issues with Mrs. Kipling , causing him to stay in Luke 's room for a couple of days . Worried about Ravi 's self - being and sanity , Luke enlists Emma and Bertram to help him get rid of Ravi by insulting Mrs. Kipling . Special guest star : Cheri Oteri as Ms. Falkenberg 36 10 `` Jessie 's Big Break '' Bob Koherr Adam Lapidus February 15 , 2013 ( 2013 - 02 - 15 ) 299 3.95 Jessie gets her big break as a stunt double to famous Australian actress Shaylee Michaels and the two become friends . Chaos ensues when the movie 's director and Shaylee 's boyfriend , McD , starts flirting with Jessie . McD turns Jessie against Shaylee by saying that she was lying to her . Luckily for Jessie , Luke records McD flirting with Jessie and Jessie and Shaylee become friends again . Meanwhile , Emma and Ravi help sneak Zuri 's pet zebra into the penthouse , but after they get caught , they also end up losing Mrs. Kipling . Now , they must set out and save Mrs. Kipling from the maniacal zoo caretaker Ms. Lumpkey . Guest stars : Maia Mitchell as Shaylee Michaels , John DeLuca as McD , Suzanne Krull as Mildred Lumpkey Note : This is a one - hour special . 37 11 `` Pain in the Rear Window '' Bob Koherr Adam Lapidus March 1 , 2013 ( 2013 - 03 - 01 ) 209 3.21 After Luke injures his leg dancing , he must stay home and miss the carnival . Since he is wheelchair - ridden , he stays on the terrace of the penthouse and notices a suspicious figure dressed in black at the carnival . Concerned , Luke enlists Emma 's help to find out who the shadowy figure is . They think it is Agatha in a clown costume , but it turns out to be Bertram . Meanwhile , Jessie is confused on why people keep winning at her booth , so she vows to get to the bottom of the situation . Guest stars : Jennifer Veal as Nanny Agatha , Joey Richter as Officer Petey 38 12 `` Toy Con '' Bob Koherr Michelle McGee & Rick Williams March 8 , 2013 ( 2013 - 03 - 08 ) 212 3.60 Emma and Luke teach Bertram how to salsa dance in order to impress the building 's chef , Salma Espinoza , but Bertram 's confidence gets hold of him . However , Luke and Emma are determined to teach Bertram . Meanwhile , Zuri trades Jessie 's childhood doll for a bunny that gives chocolate . Angry and upset , Jessie ignores Zuri until she apologizes , with Ravi gloating . The trio comes up with a plan to retrieve Jessie 's doll . At Central Park , Bertram dances with Salma happily after gaining his confidence back , but leaves him again when he notices the judges staring at him . Emma pleads Bertram to look inside of himself and say that he can do it . Luke shows off his dancing skills with Salma as his current partner . In the end , Emma and Luke win the trophy as the best salsa dancers at Central Park . Elsewhere , Jessie retrieves her precious doll and hugs Zuri with Ravi smiling . Guest stars : Stephanie Beatriz as Salma Espinoza , Sam Pancake as Simon Sneed 39 13 `` To Be Me or Not to Be Me '' Bob Koherr Pamela Eells O'Connell April 5 , 2013 ( 2013 - 04 - 05 ) 211 3.72 A package arrives for Ravi with a bell in it . He claims the bell has magical powers . When Zuri and Jessie are both holding the bell and arguing with each other , it causes them to switch bodies . Then Emma and Luke switch bodies under similar circumstances and then Ravi and Bertram switch bodies . The body transfers result in many problems . Emma needs to be back in her own body to shoot her Kitty Couture web show and Luke doesn ` t like Emma acting girly in his body . When Ravi and Bertram switch bodies , Ravi gets freaked out because Bertram is obsessed with having hair and keeps stroking it . Zuri acts very childish while in Jessie ` s body and Jessie has trouble getting Zuri to listen to her . Jessie has her first big acting role and needs Zuri to cooperate . During Jessie ` s performance , Ravi realizes everyone was arguing when they switched bodies ; to switch back , they must say positive things about one another while holding the bell . He and Bertram switch back and then Jessie runs the bell up to Zuri onstage . After Luke and Emma switch back , Ravi claims he destroyed the bell , but at the end of the episode it appears Mrs. Kipling and Jessie have now switched bodies . It is revealed that the entire episode was just Mrs. Kipling 's dream and she wakes up just as soon as the package actually arrives . Guest star : Robert Picardo as Cyril Lipton 40 14 `` Why Do Foils Fall in Love ? '' Rich Correll Mike Montesano & Ted Zizik April 19 , 2013 ( 2013 - 04 - 19 ) 214 2.94 Jessie and Tony 's first anniversary is coming up and Jessie wants to write him a song in which she expresses how much he means to her . However , when she thinks he has forgotten it , she writes an angry song and uploads it on Emma 's video blog and it becomes a hit . The next day Jessie gets invited to do a concert at the park , but finds out that she got the date wrong and Tony gets tickets to the concert Jessie is playing at , so she has Emma stall him . Unfortunately , he ends up at the concert , but Jessie is able to tell him she loves him and plays the song she originally intended to sing him . Ravi has consistently poor grades in physical education ; therefore , Luke , who is very good at sports , lets him win in a competition to build his confidence . However , Ravi gains a little too much self - confidence . It turns out that Jessie was the one who mixed up the anniversary . Guest stars : Chris Galya as Tony , Lauren Pritchard as Coach Penny Songs featured : `` Best Year '' 41 15 `` Kids Do n't Wanna Be Shunned '' Rich Correll Erin Dunlap & Sally Lapiduss April 26 , 2013 ( 2013 - 04 - 26 ) 215 2.78 Emma is upset when her friends start to hang around with royally - acclaimed new girl Bryn . Luke chooses to do his multicultural project on India and tricks Ravi into doing his whole project for him . Ravi gets his revenge by re-writing the project and making Luke look like a fool in front of the whole school , but feels bad and helps him recover from his stumble . Since all her friends are busy , Jessie takes Emma to the movies and bumps into her friends with Bryn . While trying to be the bigger person , Emma is teased by Bryn . Jessie finally puts a stop to it after insulting her . A big food fight ensues when the entire movie theater learns that Bryn is not royalty . During the fight , Rosie , one of Emma 's friends , `` takes '' a bunch of nachos by Bryn , which was aimed for Emma . In the end , Emma invites the rest of her friends ( including Rosie ) over to watch a movie and Zuri tries to tag along . Guest stars : Kelly Gould as Rosie , Katherine McNamara as Bryn Breitbart 42 16 `` All the Knight Moves '' Shannon Flynn Mike Montesano & Ted Zizik May 3 , 2013 ( 2013 - 05 - 03 ) 219 3.08 After Jessie and Ravi discover that Zuri is a chess prodigy , Jessie enters Zuri into a chess competition where she can win two tickets for a trip to Paris . Meanwhile , while watching a show about unsolved crimes , Luke and Emma start to believe that Bertram is the scuba bandit and try to prove this . However , Bertram finds out and forces them to be his crime assistants . In the end , Zuri throws the match so that her opponent can go home to Paris to see his family and make amends and Luke and Emma discover that Bertram is not really the Scuba Bandit , he was just pretending to get back at them for believing that he was . However , when they 're watching the show again , they start to believe that Jessie is the sweetheart thief as the episode ends . Guest star : Patrick Kerr as Clement Brulee 43 17 `` We Do n't Need No Stinkin ' Badges '' Shannon Flynn Pamela Eells O'Connell June 7 , 2013 ( 2013 - 06 - 07 ) 223 3.75 Jessie wants to prove that she is a great girl scout leader by helping Zuri earn her badges . Emma is also in the troop , but the leader finds out Emma 's badges are fake and she really bought the badges online . Jessie makes Emma help Zuri earn her badges . Meanwhile , Luke convinces Ravi that lying is a super power . Ravi lied to Bertram about who was responsible for putting a cricket in his lobster bisque and continues to lie to him , which puts Bertram into more trouble . Ravi tells Bertram that his arch - nemesis , Nigel Pettigrew , put the cricket in his lobster bisque . Bertram and Nigel have a `` fight '' and Nigel wins . Jessie , Emma , and Zuri get ready to sleep when Coach Penny gets attacked by an ostrich . Zuri saves her , which then allows her to get a badge . The ostrich attacks Bertram when he finds the orange that Zuri threw . Guest stars : Lauren Pritchard as Coach Penny , Oliver Muirhead as Nigel Pettigrew , Marlowe Peyton as Madge 44 18 `` Somebunny 's in Trouble '' Amanda Bearse Pamela Eells O'Connell June 21 , 2013 ( 2013 - 06 - 21 ) 221 3.04 Emma falls for a cute boy named Brett Summers . But he loves sports and Emma does not know anything about sports . So Luke helps her and sits behind the chair and texts Emma what to say . Then Brett finds out and then he forgives her . Then they play a game and then he leaves and tells her that he is studying . But he really went to the screening room with Luke . Then Emma gets mad and breaks up with him . Then Brett watches the movie and gets mad because Luke likes the Yankees and Brett does not . Meanwhile , Jessie loses Zuri 's pet bunny , of which Bertram is extremely scared . In the end , Zuri 's class bunny has babies . Guest star : Jack Griffo as Brett Summers 45 19 `` Punch Dumped Love '' Bob Koherr Leigha Barr & Pete Szilagyi June 28 , 2013 ( 2013 - 06 - 28 ) 213 3.74 After Emma neglects to pick up Zuri from school and talks back to Jessie about it , Jessie grounds her , telling her she can not go to the school dance . After Ravi tells her that Luke 's new crush 's ex-boyfriend is going to embarrass him , she sneaks out to warn Luke about it . At the dance , Adam Sandler gives Luke some relationship advice . Meanwhile , Zuri and Ravi set traps to catch a burglar . In the end , Jessie comforts Luke and ends up dancing with him at the school dance . Guest stars : Lenny Jacobson as Ted the Delivery Guy , Isabella Palmieri as Rachel Kapowski , Jackson Odell as Gale Note : Adam Sandler appears as himself in this episode , but is uncredited . Featured song : `` We 're Burning Up '' 46 20 `` Quitting Cold Koala '' Amanda Bearse Valerie Ahern & Christian McLaughlin July 5 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 05 ) 218 2.25 Kenny the Koala has always been there for Luke during countless days and nights , until one day when his obsession crosses the line . Luke must make the biggest decision of his life . He can either give up Kenny or embrace him until the end of his days . Meanwhile , Stuart is devastated that Zuri continuously tries avoiding him and he devises a plan to make her jealous by flirting with Emma instead , despite Emma 's annoyance . Convinced enough , Zuri does become jealous and pleads with him to get over Emma . Back on the terrace , Kenny accidentally slips out of Jessie 's hands as he gets torn up by a car and a horse , causing Luke to go into a deep shock while accusing Jessie for this mess . Near the end , Luke , saddened by Kenny 's sudden fall , reveals why Kenny is so important to him and that he was his only family until Morgan and Christina brought him to the city of New York . Zuri apologizes for taunting Luke all this time and they have a brief embrace . Stuart successfully fixes Kenny , as Luke thanks him and Ravi for saving his best friend from a near - death experience . Guest star : J.J. Totah as Stuart Wooten 47 21 `` Panic Attack Room '' Rich Correll Eric Schaar & David J. Booth July 5 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 05 ) 224 2.87 Once Luke , Ravi , Zuri , and Stuart are stranded in the Ross panic room with only access to the eight monitor screens of the penthouse 's rooms , Luke and Stuart are forced to confess their secrets . Meanwhile , Emma and Bertram support Jessie while she prepares for a TV audition . Unfortunately , this causes Jessie to get trapped in the panic room along with the rest of the children as she realizes were gone for hours . Guest star : J.J. Totah as Stuart Wooten 48 22 `` Throw Momma from the Terrace '' Rich Correll David J. Booth & Eric Schaar July 12 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 12 ) 222 2.94 Bertram 's mother visits to celebrate his birthday , but sadly for them , they do not get along very well , as Wanda continuously steals the spotlight , even if she has to go through extreme measures . Furious with his mother , Bertram stands up for himself , after practicing for a quite a while beforehand , and gives her `` the talk '' in front of Jessie and the Ross children , thus gaining more confidence to reveal his soft side for the children . Wanda apologizes for her bad behavior as they both happily embrace , making Bertram hungry in the end . Meanwhile , the science world puts the Ross brothers to the test as they 're assigned a project which requires an egg . Ravi decides that they should drop the egg and capture its results . Fortunately , Luke perceives this as an opportunity to prove that he is really smart by showing off his outside - the - box thinking . Unfortunately for him , Jessie and Ravi do not accept out - of - the - box ideas and Ravi claims their science project as his own achievement , which confuses Luke . Guest star : Lainie Kazan as Wanda Winkle 49 23 `` The Jessie - nator : Grudgement Day '' Rich Correll Eric Schaar & David J. Booth July 26 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 26 ) 220 3.47 A Jessie from the future warns present Jessie that exactly 60 years later , in the year 2072 , Ravi invents several Bertram - bots that plot to destroy Jessie and rule the world . Meanwhile , Luke accuses Zuri of constantly stealing his valuables . Zuri claims that she only took his watch , but Luke also believes that she stole his joy buzzer . Elsewhere , the four Ross children explore their future with intense shock and awe . Emma becomes furious once she realizes that she is not famous and vows to give the world a piece of her mind . While Jessie struggles to survive with Bertram - bots constantly attacking her , Luke and Zuri apologize to each other for their misunderstanding . In the end , it is revealed that Ravi was warning Luke about his latest prank , as he narrated this entire melodramatic story in order to scare him . 50 24 `` Diary of a Mad Newswoman '' Rich Correll Adam Lapidus August 9 , 2013 ( 2013 - 08 - 09 ) 226 3.48 Things become intense when Bryn comes back to be Emma 's co-anchor at school . Meanwhile , when Jessie finds out Zuri is snooping through her diary , she teaches Zuri a lesson . Guest stars : Amy Farrington as Ms. Devlin , Katherine McNamara as Bryn Breitbart 51 25 `` Break - Up and Shape - Up '' Rich Correll Sally Lapiduss August 23 , 2013 ( 2013 - 08 - 23 ) 225 3.49 Tony and Jessie attempt to make each other jealous by asking their exes on a double - date , causing the duo to break their dating relationships , which also saddens Emma and Zuri in the process . Meanwhile , Luke and Ravi attempt to sabotage each other 's plans on how to relieve Bertram 's stress level . Unfortunately , this leads Bertram into thinking that the Ross brothers do not actually care about him . Guest stars : Chris Galya as Tony , Spencer Boldman as Ted Hoover , Lulu Antariksa as Victoria `` Vic '' Montesano 52 26 `` G.I. Jessie '' Rich Correll Pamela Eells O'Connell September 13 , 2013 ( 2013 - 09 - 13 ) 227 -- 228 4.77 Jessie goes with the children to the military base in Fort Hood , Texas where her father lives and discovers that her father is about to be married to the mother of Jessie 's high school rival Darla Shannon , who tried to drown her in a well . Meanwhile , Emma falls in love with Darla 's brother , Caleb , and Darla and Jessie will do anything to keep them apart . Guest stars : Molly Shannon as Colonel Shannon , Kate Flannery as Corporal Cookie , James Patrick Stuart as Colonel John Wayne Prescott , Molly Burnett as Darla Shannon , Dylan Boyack as Caleb Shannon , Merrick McCartha as Chaplain