Anna Faris as Christy Jolene Plunkett : a single mother who has gone four years without drinking and is still struggling with addiction and gambling . Now sober , she strives to be a good example to her son Roscoe , and regain the trust of her daughter Violet , who is revealed to be pregnant herself in the first episode . In addition , she is trying to iron out the rough edges in her relationship with her mother Bonnie , who never learned to play her role well and who would rather go out and drink than baby - sit . Christy later finds out that her biological father ran out on Bonnie on Christmas Eve , the day before Christy was born , and locates the man as a now - married father of two sons who runs an auto repair shop . Allison Janney as Bonnie Plunkett : Christy 's mother , a joyful if cynical recovering addict who is now grateful with life . She tries desperately to regain the love and trust of her daughter , whom she was unable to properly nurture as a child . In her teen time Bonnie started drinking at 15 years old . She was in the foster care system being ricocheted around from house to house when she kept running off with Alvin , she ended up plainly pregnant and had Christy however he abandoned them at the hospital and Bonnie nearly put Christy up for adoption . A pleasant Jewish couple was going to adopt her , yet Bonnie pulled out finally . From that point on , she attempted her best to raise Christy , however Christy wound up raising herself as Bonnie drank heavily and took tranquilizes and got back home late . A single mother , she preferred to party and drink rather than stay home . With time and much therapy , Bonnie managed to find the balance and now wants to catch up , revealing to Christy her past , including who her real father is and how to find him , as well as her past side career as a drug dealer . Sadie Calvano as Violet Plunkett ( main cast seasons 1 -- 3 ; recurring season 4 ) : Christy 's daughter and older half - sister of Roscoe . A senior in high school at the beginning of the series , Violet is hardworking , smart and sure of herself , though upset with her mother , who never had time to take care of her children and failed to fulfill a true motherly role despite now being sober for some time . After having her boyfriend Luke 's baby , Violet made the decision to place her baby for adoption because she felt that this was the best way to break her family 's repeated cycle of poor life choices and give her child a better chance than she , her mother , or her grandmother ever had . During season 2 , in a brief downward spiral of bad behavior , Violet cheats on Luke and he breaks up with her . She later gets engaged to Gregory Munchnik , a psychology professor at her university , but he breaks the engagement after she relapses - she has since been behaving in a gold digger-esque manner with other men . She got back together with Luke in Season 4 . Nate Corddry as Gabriel ( main cast seasons 1 -- 2 ) : the manager of the restaurant where Christy works . Married to a domineering woman who scares him somewhat , Gabriel and Christy are carrying on an affair which Christy later ends but which Gabriel himself frequently and desperately tries to renew : they briefly resume their affair in season 2 when Christy is promoted as his replacement . He is a hardworking , competent manager , but often put in his place by his subordinates , particularly Chef Rudy . Matt Jones as Baxter ( main cast seasons 1 -- 3 ; recurring season 4 ; guest season 5 ) : Christy 's ex-husband and the father of Roscoe . Sweet and charming , but very unstable , he is unable to maintain a serious relationship or steady work for much longer than a month . Loves easy life and frequently gets into fraudulent deals to make money . Despite his flaws , he is a loving father who usually comes through for his son . During season 2 , under the influence of his wealthy new girlfriend Candace , Baxter gives up his slacker ways and becomes a car salesman . French Stewart as Chef Rudy ( main cast seasons 1 -- 2 ; guest season 3 ) : the head chef for the restaurant where Christy works as a waitress . A dominant and difficult self - made man , Rudy acts superior in his relationships with others . He is boastful and arrogant , often yelling at his subordinates without mincing words and will not hesitate to humiliate anyone who opposes him . He is secretive about his past and distant from people , but briefly dates Bonnie at one point : during this time , he is revealed to be a ( bi ) sexual fetishist with expensive tastes and hobbies who enjoys stealing food from the restaurant . Spencer Daniels as Luke ( main cast season 1 ; recurring season 2 ; guest season 4 ) : a young student who loves to enjoy life and adventure . He had been dating Violet for a little over a year and got her pregnant . Luke is considerably airheaded , smoking marijuana often , but always tries to prove to Christy that he is not as crazy as he appears : he seems to genuinely love Violet , staying beside her and supporting her throughout her pregnancy , and he is often more sensitive towards Christy than her own children are , perhaps because his parents are religious fundamentalists with whom he does not connect . In season 2 , Violet , during her downward spiral , cheated on Luke and he broke up with Violet . By season 4 , Luke has apparently cleaned himself up and got a high - paying job with a video game company , driving Violet to get back together with him . Blake Garrett Rosenthal as Roscoe Plunkett ( main cast seasons 1 -- 3 ; recurring season 4 ) : Christy 's son by Baxter and half - brother of Violet . He eventually goes to live with his father and his father 's fiancé . He experimented with marijuana at age twelve . Mimi Kennedy as Marjorie Armstrong - Perugian ( recurring season 1 , main cast season 2 -- present ) : Christy 's and Bonnie 's AA sponsor . She had problems with alcohol and drugs in the past and is a breast cancer survivor . Through Christy she meets Victor Perugian , Christy 's former landlord , who she eventually weds . Jaime Pressly as Jill Kendall ( recurring season 2 , main cast season 3 -- present ) : An AA member who Christy sponsors , Jill is a wealthy divorced socialite who is prone to relapses . Beth Hall as Wendy Harris ( recurring season 2 , main cast season 3 -- present ) : A member of the AA group , who constantly cries . She is a registered nurse and a member of Mensa . William Fichtner as Adam Janikowski ( recurring season 3 , main cast season 4 -- present ) : Bonnie 's latest love interest and later fiancé , a wheelchair - bound former stuntman whom she met over the phone after he dialed the wrong number .