Country Description Andorra No National Identity Card in the Principality . Passports & driving licenses are most commonly used for identification . Australia In 1985 , there was a failed proposal to create an Australia Card . In 2006 the Australian Government announced the introduction of a non-compulsory Access Card that would act as a gateway to services administered by The Department of Human Services . This project , however , was terminated in November 2007 . Class A identification documents in most Australian states include State government ) , Australian Passport ( issued by the Federal government ) , foreign passport , or Residency / Citizenship documents ( issued by the Federal government ) . Canada In the past , Canadian citizenship cards were issued to new Canadians upon naturalization and established Canadians ( upon request ) . As of 2012 these cards have been discontinued , and there is no national identity card or equivalent . Driver 's licenses issued by the provinces are the primary form of identification . All provinces and territories except Quebec also issue separate photo identification cards for non-drivers . Health cards ( issued by the provinces ) and passports ( issued by the Canadian federal government ) are used as supplemental or alternative identification . Denmark No national identity card . When needed , e.g. in banks , a passport or driver 's license is used or , for age checks , a municipal identity card . Against authorities a health insurance card ( without photo ) can be used . Fiji There is no national ID Card , although , in 2010 and 2012 , there were proposals for a compulsory identity card ideas that did not progress . New Zealand No national identity card . Acceptable types of identification for proof of identification may include passports , firearms licences , driving licences , 18 + cards ( issued by Hospitality NZ ) , a SuperGold ( senior citizen 's ) card , birth certificates or a citizenship certificate . Norway No national identity card , but other identity cards exist which are needed e.g. in the bank if not using a passport or driver  ́ s license . Bank issued debit cards , usually VISA , have had a photo ID on the back since the 1980s . The banks have stated that they no longer intend to issue ID - cards on their debit and credit cards , as they think ID - cards should be a public service . This requires people who do not have a drivers license to bring their passport in many situations . Norway decided in 2007 to introduce a voluntary national identity card , to be usable for travel to EU countries , but they are delayed and are planned to be introduced on 1 April 2018 . The reason for the delay is that the responsible authority requires absolute security on both the cards and the validation of the identity at issuance . Philippines No national identity card . However , in an effort to hasten applications for government services , the government can issue the Unified Multi-Purpose ID ( UMID ) as the single identity card for the four main government agencies namely , the Social Security System ( SSS ) , Government Service Insurance System ( GSIS ) , Philippine Health Insurance Corporation ( PhilHealth ) , and the Pag - IBIG Fund ( Home Development Mutual Fund ) . United Kingdom Compulsory identity cards were to be introduced under the Identity Cards Act 2006 . Initial cards , not yet compulsory , were introduced for those who wanted them in 2009 , but the requirement and the cards were abolished by the Identity Documents Act 2010 after a change of government . When a formal identity document is needed , a passport or a driving licence is needed . For those who do not have -- or wish to carry -- a passport or driving licence , the UK Government has instituted the PASS scheme , which allows private companies to issue proof of age cards to UK residents , primarily for young people to prove age in the purchase of age - restricted goods and services . United States The U.S. passport card is the de jure national identity card of the United States of America . The passport card is issued by the federal government via the Department of State upon voluntary request . The primary purpose of the passport card is used as a Federal issued Identity card and a limited travel document under the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative , similar to the usage of national identity cards in the Schengen Area . However , passport cards are also conclusive proof of U.S. citizenship under federal law , accepted for domestic airline travel under the REAL ID Act , a List A document for Form I - 9 purposes , and generally proof of identity / citizenship both inside and outside the United States . Despite this , the predominant and de facto method of identification remains the driver 's license ( or non-driver ID card ) issued by each state , because driver 's license is needed for driving , although these generally do not indicate citizenship or nationality . In the past , compulsory ID cards or something compulsory resembling ID cards have existed , such as internal passports for freed African Americans before the abolition of slavery , and the draft cards for men ( during times when men were conscripted into the army ) . In some states , there is a Stop and identify statute meaning that an identity card ( or driver 's license or other photo id ) is mandatory in certain circumstances .