1857 George Fitzhugh publishes Cannibals All ! Or Slaves Without Masters , which defends chattel slavery and ridicules free labor as wage slavery . Commercial conventions in the South call for the reopening of the African slave trade , thinking that a ready access to inexpensive slaves would spread slavery to the territories . Hinton Rowan Helper , a North Carolinian , publishes The Impending Crisis of the South , which argues that slavery was the main cause of the South 's economic stagnation . This charge angers many Southerners . The U.S. Supreme Court reaches the Dred Scott v. Sandford decision , a 7 to 2 ruling that Congress lacks the power to exclude slavery from the territories , that slaves are property and have no rights as citizens and that slaves are not made free by living in free territory . Chief Justice Roger B. Taney concludes that the Missouri Compromise is unconstitutional . If a court majority clearly agreed ( which it did not in this decision ) , this conclusion would allow all territories to be open to slavery . Scott and his family were purchased and freed by a supporter 's children . Northerners vowed to oppose the decision as in violation of a `` higher law '' . Antagonism between the sections of the country increases . Anti-slavery supporters in Kansas ignore a June election to a constitutional convention because less populous pro-slavery counties were given a majority of delegates . The convention adopts the pro-slavery Lecompton Constitution . Meanwhile , anti-slavery representatives win control of the state legislature . In August , a short economic depression , the Panic of 1857 , arises , mainly in large northern cities , as a result of speculation in and inflated values of railroad stocks and real estate . Southerners tout the small effect in their section as support for their economic and labor system . Buchanan endorses the Lecompton constitution and breaks with Douglas , who regards the document as a mockery of popular sovereignty because its referendum provision does not offer a true free state option . A bitter feud begins inside the Democratic party . Douglas 's opposition to the Lecompton constitution erodes his support from pro-slavery factions . The Tariff of 1857 , authored primarily by R.M.T. Hunter of Virginia , uses the Walker Tariff as a base and lowers rates .