No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Part 1 65 `` Coming Home ? '' Samir Rehem Frank van Keeken March 16 , 2015 ( 2015 - 03 - 16 ) A-Troupe is reunited after their Nationals win , but the celebrations are short lived . The team must find a new place to dance , or make a big sacrifice that will determine The Next Step 's future . Meanwhile , James helps plan his aunt 's wedding . 66 `` Game , Set , and Match '' Samir Rehem Elizabeth Becker & Frank van Keeken March 16 , 2015 ( 2015 - 03 - 16 ) Kate decides to finally tell the dancers the truth , which is Lucien has bought the building and is insisting that they merge with Elite . They first think that they go one on one with Elite , but it could be Elite vs Elite , Elite vs The Next Step or even worse , The Next Step vs The Next Step . Eldon is deeply horrified by the thought of going against his own team , so leaves A-Troupe . Lucien meets up with Daniel in a park and tells him he has the opportunity to join a team going to internationals if he does everything he says , and Daniel agrees . Thalia finds Eldon in the music room , and Eldon tells her he is not ready to come back to A-Troupe . She tells the rest of A-Troupe , and James says he will try to get him back . Michelle is having a hard time trusting Amanda after the past , but when she spies on her talking to Elite and overhears her saying she 's with The Next Step , she says she trusts her now . Daniel visits the next step and tells A-Troupe he 's with Elite . James finds this as a way to get Eldon back and Eldon comes back . The team is now ready to take on Elite . 67 `` Secrets '' Shawn Thompson Frank van Keeken & Chloe van Keeken March 17 , 2015 ( 2015 - 03 - 17 ) Emily learns that she will not be able to dance for at least 8 months . She confides in Stephanie and swears her to secrecy . Not wanting Emily to hurt herself , Stephanie tells Riley that Emily is unable to dance . Riley confronts Emily who is still insistent to dance so Riley tells A-Troupe and Miss Kate meaning Emily is knocked off the team . Lucien makes a deal with Miss Kate that Michelle gets to automatically go through to internationals but she is counted as an Elite win because she has the Miss National Soloist title . 68 `` Let the Games Begin '' Shawn Alex Thompson Tricia Fish & Emma Campbell March 18 , 2015 ( 2015 - 03 - 18 ) Dancers compete one on one for a spot on the internationals team . Hunter goes first , and picks Eldon 's name . They have to go against each other and Eldon wins , which means Hunter is off the team . Daniel and Lucien come up with a plan to eliminate more of the next step dancers by placing them against each other . When James is called out to dance Lucien creates a diversion allowing Daniel to switch the names in the hat . The episode ends when James picks out a name from the hat and it 's Riley 's name . He is shocked to find out that he will have to compete against Riley for a place at Internationals . 69 5 `` The Fallout '' Chloe van Keeken Frank van Keeken March 19 , 2015 ( 2015 - 03 - 19 ) The episode starts with James and Riley practicing their solos to compete for a spot at internationals . Riley confesses to James that she would prefer not to go to internationals rather her that competing against him . James convinces her to dance full out for the team and he also promises to do the same . Riley dances her solo and keeps her promise but when James gets up to do his solo he realises that Riley deserves to have the spot over him and so he walks out . Riley is shocked and mad as he did not keep his promise . After talking to Eldon , Riley realises that James did it to make a good thing out of a bad situation and he did it because he loves her . She goes to find James who is practicing in the music room and she tells him that she loves him and she knows why he did what he did . 70 6 `` The Times They Are a Changin ' '' Shawn Alex Thompson Chloe van Keeken March 20 , 2015 ( 2015 - 03 - 20 ) Giselle faces a familiar opponent in her battle when she dances against Daniel , fortunately she wins and Chloe defends her place on the team . Tess and Amanda go head to head . When Amanda wins , she is the seventh dancer to win and the ownership of The Next Step is decided 71 7 `` Your New Beginning '' Samir Rehem Amy Cole March 23 , 2015 ( 2015 - 03 - 23 ) The new Elite members are having a hard time adjusting to life in A-Troupe , as well as Noah . James plans a surprise for Riley for when she gets her braces off , which is giving her corn on the cob . Eldon sees , and gets an idea to give Thalia a corn on the cob as well . Shantel and Giselle , as well as Max and West and Noah and Cierra , have to work on a duet to bond with one another . Max and West and Noah and Cierra do fantastic , but Shantel and Giselle fail . 72 8 `` I 'm Your Captain '' Samir Rehem Frank van Keeken March 24 , 2015 ( 2015 - 03 - 24 ) Michelle resigns as dance captain , saying she it is n't fair if she is n't fully committed to the team , so Kate chooses Giselle for the new dance captain . Shantel challenges Giselle for the dance captain position because she feels she would make a great leader . They each make a trio and whoever wins is the new dance captain . Shantel leads the contemporary dance with Noah , Thalia and West , whilst Giselle does the hip - hop dance with Max , Eldon and Chloe . She is struggling , so she asks Michelle on how to be a great dance captain . James needs to find a suit for Aunt Kathy 's wedding in his Uncle Enzo 's shop . It is going terribly , so Riley helps him out . Giselle finally creates a great routine and wins the trio challenge , which means she is the new dance captain , so Shantel leaves A-Troupe and says she did because she did n't want to be on a team that did n't respect her talent . 73 9 `` The Nutcracker Prince '' Samir Rehem Elizabeth Becker March 25 , 2015 ( 2015 - 03 - 25 ) Eldon challenges West to audition for Le Ballet de la Reine Touring company for The Nutcracker , so West asks for Chloe 's help . Chloe goes along with West to audition for moral support , and they make the final round . West does n't get in , but he is very happy for Chloe who is offered a part . Seeing as Shantel left , there is one more space on A-Troupe , and James is offered the space , but does n't think he is very committed as he is with his band . At the end , James rejoins A-Troupe and everyone is happy , except Chloe , who has to make a big choice ; The Nutcracker or Internationals ? 74 10 `` Ca n't Fight This Feeling '' Samir Rehem Rachael Schaefer March 26 , 2015 ( 2015 - 03 - 26 ) Thalia is starting to get feelings for Eldon , but wanders if him and Michelle are really over each other . Meanwhile , Richelle is bothered by Noah and Abi getting along so well , because she likes Noah . Thalia talks to Michelle about her and Eldon , and Michelle says she is pretty close with him and they are good friends . Thalia then talks Eldon about Michelle and says they have chemistry . This bothers her and then she runs away . Michelle thinks Thalia was asking her about Eldon because he still likes her , so she confronts him and then realizes that Thalia was asking that because she likes him . After that , Michelle tells Thalia that her and Eldon are not getting back together and does n't even like him like that , and is totally fine with them , so Thalia goes to Eldon and watches him do a dance . When he finishes , they both say they really like each other and hold hands . Meanwhile , Chloe still has no idea what to do about the decision she has to make , West tells her to follow her dream but she does n't want to let the team down . 75 11 `` Marry Me '' Frank van Keeken Frank van Keeken March 27 , 2015 ( 2015 - 03 - 27 ) James finally meets his aunt 's fiance , and discovers he is the crazy guy that was his driving instructor from when he was completing the list of tasks for Riley . Riley is very scared of him , and James says he is beyond weird . Elsewhere , Thalia helps Eldon teach the J - Troupe acro class and they grow closer when they perform a duet for them . Also Michelle has trouble adjusting to her parents divorce and thinks that it is all her fault . Aunt Kathy 's wedding preparations are not going well , as Arthur has no best man and the band could n't make it . James offers to be Arthur 's best man and play the wedding with his band . The wedding is a huge success and him and Riley have a lot of fun . 76 12 `` Do The Right Thing '' Frank van Keeken Frank van Keeken March 30 , 2015 ( 2015 - 03 - 30 ) Chloe is growing more and more worried as she has no idea what to do about her decision . Meanwhile , seeing as they are getting along so well , Thalia goes to Eldon in Hidalgos and asks him if he would like to go to a concert with her . Eldon makes up weird excuses because he needs to do 30 pirouettes before he can go out with her . Chloe gets guilty when Miss Kate says she has no idea what she would do without her . Thalia confronts Eldon about what 's been going on , so he takes her to James and he explains about the 30 pirouettes . West tells Chloe that if she does n't take the job offer , she would be letting down the next step . West helps Eldon with his problem , but he is getting sick from all the constant spinning . Chloe finally makes a decision , and tells Miss Kate she has accepted the offer . Miss Kate is very proud of her and says she is following her dream and will miss her a lot . Eldon has given up doing 30 pirouettes , Thalia sees him on the floor and tells him he is doing a really good job . She helps him up and then they start practicing pirouettes together . Chloe is dancing in studio A one last time , and Margie appears . They do a ballet piece together , and Margie waves goodbye and disappears in glitter . 77 13 `` Put You First '' Patrick Sisam Emma Campbell March 31 , 2015 ( 2015 - 03 - 31 ) James forgets about his anniversary with Riley , so gives her a half eaten box of chocolates . He tells her he has a huge surprise for her later , and Riley tells him she has something big for him too , when actually they have nothing for each other . Meanwhile , Giselle , Thalia and Amanda are practicing a trio to be prepared for internationals , but Amanda has to go to help her mom . Max helps Giselle and Thalia with spacing and they come up with a new trio , so Kate replaces Amanda with Max . West and Eldon see Noah catch a glass of milk while he is talking to Cierra , so they test his catching skills in Hidalgos , and he can also catch while facing the other way . They the test his dodging skills , and he can dodge while flipping . They finally test his senses in the dark , he is blindfolded and West , Eldon and Cierra are wearing night vision goggles but he still catches them very quickly . James creates a song for Riley with his band for her present , and she loves it . Riley puts a huge canvas in studio A and lots of paint . They splash each other with paint and dance together , and have a great anniversary . 78 14 `` I Hope I Get It '' Frank van Keeken Frank van Keeken April 1 , 2015 ( 2015 - 04 - 01 ) With Chloe gone , the team needs to find a twelfth dancer for internationals . They hold B - Troupe auditions with Skylar , Abi , Shannon , Jake and Stephanie auditioning . Daniel makes a surprise return saying he is there to audition , claiming the Next Step ca n't win internationals without him . They all audition , and Stephanie does amazing . Michelle contemplates returning to Madison with her mom after talking to Hunter on video chat . Meanwhile back at the studio , auditions start for the one spot to fill in for Chloe . the whole A troupe gets to decide who makes it in . Everyone chooses Stephanie . 79 15 `` The New Girl in Town '' Frank van Keeken Frank van Keeken April 2 , 2015 ( 2015 - 04 - 02 ) With Stephanie joining A-Troupe to complete the Internationals Team , the team is very excited and ready to take on internationals . All of A-Troupe is very happy with their team for internationals . Whilst they are all having fun , a dancer from England arrives called Ella who is a part of the internationals exchange program arrives and Riley must mentor her . Riley immediately does n't like her because she plays a prank on her along with Noah and West , and later plays a prank on Max in Hidalgos . Amanda gets chosen for the exchange program and has to go to Sweden , but Amanda does n't want to go . Amanda wants to swap with West so West can go to Sweden but Miss Kate explains Amanda is the Alternate for the Internationals Team and will only compete if someone else from A-Troupe ca n't . Eldon is practicing 30 pirouettes in Studio A with Thalia , but is stuck on 14 . Ella and Riley walk in , and Ella offers to help , saying if he does 24 she will kiss him . Thalia does n't mind at this point , but when he does 24 pirouettes and Ella actually does kiss him , she gets very annoyed and tells Riley she is going to give Eldon more motivation . Giselle needs some help with being a good dance captain , so Michelle gathers some J - Troupers to act out scenarios , but Giselle ends up making the studio `` bankrupted 19 times , many injuries and even a deportation '' . Richelle feels bad for her , so she gives her the dance captain diary that Emily gave her . Thalia drags West into studio A and asks Eldon if he wants to see something , then kisses West twice in front of him . She tells Eldon ? to spin and he does 9 pirouettes , so she tells him he is disappointing . Riley sees Ella wrapping James ' drum kit in bubble wrap and thinks it 's funny , so joins in . At the end of the episode , Riley , Eldon and Thalia visit Michelle at her house as she is helping her mom pack . They give her muffins and say goodbye to her . Michelle says later that as hard as it is saying goodbye to her friends , she does n't know how she 'll say goodbye to her mom and may be saying goodbye to them for the last time . She feels really sad and wonders what it would be like to say bye to the next step . Part 2 80 16 `` Sweet Spot '' Frank van Keeken Frank van Keeken September 11 , 2015 ( 2015 - 09 - 11 ) James is preoccupied with his band and ca n't devote time to his duet with Riley for Internationals , so Ella helps her let loose . Meanwhile , Eldon and Thalia try to uncover the studio 's sweet spots . When Eldon puts a love letter for Thalia in a sweet spot , he gives them a telling of , saying that a 30 pirouette relationship is better than a 21 / 22 pirouette relationship . 81 17 `` Square Dance '' Jay Prychidny Elizabeth Becker September 11 , 2015 ( 2015 - 09 - 11 ) As the tension from Internationals mounts , Riley and Ella help the group relax by tricking them into learning square dancing . An internationals letter arrives and Ella and Riley put a note in the envelope telling the team that they need to learn a square dance . Once the pressure builds the team gets stressed and Riley ca n't cope with the stress . She tells James thinking he will understand as he loves pranks but he gets mad . He goes to the music room saying Riley is n't the girl he fell in love with . The team end the episode by performing the square dance but James does n't turn up to be Riley 's partner so after Ella has danced with Stephanie for a bit she dances with Riley . Riley says she has more fun with Ella than she has had with James for a long time which is worrying for the future of their relationship . 82 18 `` Mixed Messages '' Jay Prychidny Rachael Shaefer September 18 , 2015 ( 2015 - 09 - 18 ) Ella has Riley and James take a closer look at their relationship . Elsewhere , Thalia and Eldon devise clandestine ways of communicating . 83 19 `` Never There '' Rachael Shaefer Chloe van Keeken September 25 , 2015 ( 2015 - 09 - 25 ) Michelle is struggling with her parents ' divorce , and this affects the team . Meanwhile , James and Riley try to see things from one another 's perspectives ; and Ella tries to convince Noah that A-Troupe is the right place for him . 84 20 `` Cry Me a River '' Steve Bendernjak Rachael Shaefer October 2 , 2015 ( 2015 - 10 - 02 ) Michelle , Riley , Cierra , Giselle and Stephanie are doing a 2 - 7 person group dance and after it Michelle starts crying on the floor about being an alternate and how useless she looked on the throne and Stephanie goes up to her and helps her . Noah and Eldon battle after Noah 's questioning about why Eldon is the Internationals male soloist and not him . They battle for a while until Noah admits defeat because he thinks Eldon is amazing . Max , James and West are chatting about Internationals and James burps , then Max burps and West looks disgusted and James asks him if he can burp and West answers no . He tries but he fails and suddenly Ella does a massive burp and shocks the boys and she says First round Ella . Stephanie is helping Michelle and Riley comes in asking to rehearse and exclaims that Miss Kate chose her to represent The Next Step for the female solo round and Michelle cries again . The boys are trying to drink raw egg but they all ca n't do it but Ella comes up and pours all 6 into a glass and drinks them . James says ' Who is this girl ? ' . Noah and Eldon do a duet which is amazing and Eldon proclaims that he will be the soloist next year . The boys come in and challenge Ella to a sporting event , she chooses football . Stephanie is helping Michelle see the brighter side to being an alternate and Michelle becomes happier . James , Max and West are outside and Ella comes along with a football and they throw it away and replace it with a soccer ball . Max kicks the ball and misses and Ella kicks it and scores straight through the post . Ella says I have four older brothers , where do you think I learn this stuff ? James tries but fails miserably . Michelle feels so much better and her and Stephanie leave and go home . 85 21 `` Today I 'm Getting Over You '' Chloe van Keeken Malek Pacha & Bradley Vermunt October 9 , 2015 ( 2015 - 10 - 09 ) A-Troupe members team up with folks from B - Troupe for duets . Meanwhile , Stephanie tries not to resort to old habits ; Cierra 's love of dance leads to trouble with Skylar ; and Richelle tries to deal with her crush on Noah . 86 22 `` It 's my Party '' Kim Derko Rachael Shaefer October 16 , 2015 ( 2015 - 10 - 16 ) Giselle and West help Eldon and Thalia 's relationship . A Troupe host a surprise party for Amanda 's arrival from Sweden . Noah wants to kiss Abi . 87 23 `` Welcome to Miami '' Frank van Keeken Tricia Fish October 23 , 2015 ( 2015 - 10 - 23 ) A Troupe arrive in Miami for Internationals . Everyone is buzzing and all joyful . Thalia learnt how to say hello in 55 different languages to say to the other dance teams at Internationals . Kate tells the group that they have to register tomorrow , so they get a day off . James has a day planned with Riley , but Riley meets up with Ella and Riley and Ella go to a Cuban restaurant . Ella forgets the money for the food , and she decides to run back and fetch it . Riley decides to order more food to pass the time . Ella leaves a phone call saying her team needs her and she wo n't be able to come back to the restaurant , leaving Riley alone with no money and a huge bill to pay . The staff notice Riley eating all the food and get suspicious . Riley comes clean to the manager , and he says she can either pay off the bills by working as a waitress , or the police will get involved . Riley decides to be a waitress , but it is going terribly . James gets Riley 's text to help her , but he hangs out with Eldon instead , who is looking for sweet spots for his and Thalia 's first date . James gets fed up by this , and goes to the restaurant and sees Riley and James and Eldon do n't actually help her pay the bill off , they sit at a table and orders some things . Riley gets angry by this and starts slapping both James and Eldon , until they help pay the bill . James finally gives money and the bill is paid off . Meanwhile , West shows Giselle , Amanda and Stephanie popular attractions at Miami , and they all end the tour by dancing in front of a beautiful graffiti wall . 88 24 `` Lost at Sea '' Frank van Keeken Chloe van Keeken October 30 , 2015 ( 2015 - 10 - 30 ) Kate and Giselle arrive to register for Internationals , but James has still not signed his form . Unfortunately , James is stuck in the middle of alligator - filled Everglade with West and Eldon . Then the boys get stuck for two hours in the Everglades . 89 25 `` When the War is Over '' Mitchell T. Ness Rachael Shaefer November 6 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 06 ) On the day of the male and female solo round , Eldon struggle with the loss of his lucky coin . Thalia comforts him and he feels ok . He performs his solo , does really well , but is beaten by the Swedish dancer . Riley 's friendship with Ella is tested when they have to compete against each other . Ella goes up a few turns before Riley and then Ella performs Riley 's solo because Riley showed Ella her solo . Her biggest mistake . Giselle then performs a solo instead of Riley , but Ella still wins . 90 26 `` We are the World '' Frank van Keeken Rachael Schaefer November 13 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 13 ) With the small group round fast approaching . Michelle , Giselle , Riley and Cierra are angry to see that Stephanie is n't putting in as much effort as she should be into practice and consider replace her . Meanwhile , Thalia must compete with three dancers from different countries in the first official round of Internationals , and Eldon begins to suspect that her Polish team - mate cares about more than just dance . Thalia and her group get through to the next round . 91 27 `` Blind '' Mitchell T. Ness Frank van Keeken & Amy Cole November 20 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 20 ) The Next Step progress to the second round of Internationals . However , the Internationals board declare that the next dance should be danced blindfolded giving everyone a great shock ! The group are not doing well until West brings Noah into the mix and then Noah replaces Michelle because she is the alternate . They beat France to move forward in the competition . 92 28 `` Turn , Turn , Turn '' Mitchell T. Ness Frank van Keeken November 27 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 27 ) Eldon competes in a turning competition against seven other dancers to determine how much time their team will have to re-work the routine to the internationals boards choice of music . Eldon turns for the longest , meaning that his team has the longest , and it means he can finally date Thalia . The Next Step are up against Jamaica . The next step performs their 5 person dance and wins , meaning that they move forward to the semi-finals . 93 29 `` She 's Not You '' Mitchell T. Ness Frank van Keeken December 4 , 2015 ( 2015 - 12 - 04 ) The Next Step have advanced to the semi-finals and are up against England and because Ella betrayed Riley and her team they said they are going to make them regret it . West gets food poisoning from a kebab stand and then Michelle has to step in for him . It seemed that he would not dance in the semifinals however just before they went onto the stage he rushed and claimed that he was well enough to dance . Therefore Michelle had to make a choice wherever to dance herself or let West dance . West then went on with the team and Michelle and Amanda watched on from the wings with Kate . The Next Step beat England with their semifinals dance and The Next Step are through to the final but their chances could be wrecked . At the end they are warming up on the stage and Lucien walks on and claims that he is a judge . 94 30 `` How It Ends '' Frank van Keeken Frank van Keeken December 11 , 2015 ( 2015 - 12 - 11 ) The Next Step battles for the title of International champions against the team from Sweden ; James and Riley put everything on the line to give their team a chance at winning . Daniel reappears in an attempt to help The Next Step but Giselle brushes him off , even though he may help The Next Step greatly . Daniel sends footage of Lucien scheming to Giselle and they get Lucien taken away by security . Both The next step and Sweden perform their dance . The next step score 97 , and Sweden 92 , but because of Sweden 's 5 point advantage it is a tie . This means that both teams have to perform duets . Sweden performs a duet and so do James and Riley . The Next Step win , so they are Internationals champions defeating Sweden .