Subject / Law Long guns Handguns Relevant Statutes Notes State permit to purchase ? No No Firearm registration ? No No Owner license required ? No No Assault weapon law ? No No Magazine capacity restriction ? No No Carry license required ? No Yes GC Ch . 411.172 Licensed carry of a handgun requires a `` shall - issue '' license , and is subject to specific laws governing trespass while armed . People who are barred from licensing include those under age 21 , felons , fugitives , people who are `` chemically dependent '' or `` incapable of exercising sound judgment '' , and those in arrears for taxes or child support . Open carry ? Yes Yes PC 46.02 Long gun and black powder weapon ( including handgun ) open carry is not forbidden by law , unless in a manner `` calculated to cause alarm . '' Effective January 1 , 2016 , individuals with a handgun carry license are permitted to carry openly , per House Bill 910 of the 2015 legislative session . Non-residents from states whose permits are recognized by Texas are also allowed to open carry under the new law . Concealed carry on college campus ? No Yes May carry in parking lots , parking garages , outdoor walkways on campus . Public four - year universities ( as of August 1 , 2016 ) and public two - year colleges ( as of August 1 , 2017 ) must allow concealed carry in campus buildings as well . Universities will be allowed to designate certain sensitive areas as `` gun free zones '' ; these will be subject to legislative analysis . State preemption of local restrictions ? Yes Yes LGC ยง 229.001 . State law prohibits municipal governments from regulating the ownership , transfer , storage , or licensing of firearms , ammunition , or accessories . Local ordinances can regulate the discharge of firearms ( such as for noise , nuisance or public safety ) , but not in contradiction of state law concerning justified use of a firearm . NFA weapons restricted ? No No PC 46.01 , PC 46.05 Texas Penal Code Section 46.05 requires that `` explosive weapons '' , `` machine guns '' , `` short - barrel firearms '' , and `` firearm silencers '' , as defined in Section 46.01 , be `` registered in the National Firearms Registration and Transfer Record maintained by the Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco , Firearms and Explosives or classified as a curio or relic by the United States Department of Justice '' . Prior to May 22nd 2015 , Section 46.05 called `` registration pursuant to the National Firearms Act '' a `` defense to prosecution '' . Peaceable journey laws ? Yes Yes PC 46.02 , PC 46.15 A person may carry a loaded handgun without a permit while in or heading directly to a motor vehicle or watercraft they own or control . The statute does not specifically state the handgun must be concealed while heading to the vehicle or watercraft , and 46.02 , which requires concealment of a handgun while in a motor vehicle or watercraft , is not applicable to a person while the person is traveling , pursuant to said activities . 46.15 ( b ) ( 2 ) . Castle doctrine / stand your ground law ? Yes Yes PC 9.32 A person is presumed justified in using deadly force to protect themselves against an unlawful , forceful intrusion into their dwelling , or to prevent an unlawful , forceful attempt to remove a lawful occupant from the dwelling , or to prevent certain serious felonies such as burglary or arson . There is no duty to retreat from any place where the shooter has a legal right to be . Background checks required for private sales ? No No