No . Title Directed by Written by Original release date `` Iron From Ice '' Martin Montgomery Andrew Grant December 2 , 2014 ( 2014 - 12 - 02 ) At the Red Wedding , the Stark bannerman Lord Gregor Forrester and his heir Rodrik are killed by the Freys . Lord Forrester 's last word to his squire , Gared , are that ' he must protect the North Grove ' . Gared escapes the massacre and safely reached the Forrester stronghold Ironrath to bring news of the deaths of Gregor and Rodrik . Ethan Forrester , third son of Gregor , becomes head of the house . Ethan must decide who to appoint as his Sentinel ; and how to punish a servant of the house caught stealing . Gared is sent to the Wall to escape the revenge of the ascendant Boltons , and Lady Forrester issues instructions to her daughter Mira , a lady - in - waiting for the King 's bride Margaery Tyrell , to look for support for her family at the court in King 's Landing . Lady Forrester also sends her brother , Malcolm , to search Essos for her exiled son Asher in the hope he can support them . But the young heir to House Forrester , Ethan , is nonetheless killed by Ramsay Snow , bastard and enforcer of the new Warden of the North , Roose Bolton , in order to gain control of the Forresters ' valuable Ironwood reserves . Ludd Whitehill takes Ryon hostage and leaves a garrison of his men at Ironrath . `` The Lost Lords '' Kent Mudle Nicole Martinez , Meghan Thornton and Brad Kane February 3 , 2015 ( 2015 - 02 - 03 ) A cart of the bodies from the massacre at the Twins is brought to Ironrath , amongst them is the body of Lord Gregor and the injured but still - living Rodrik . The Forresters hold a funeral for Ethan and Gregor . Gared arrives at the wall , where he begins his training to become a ranger of the Night 's Watch ; along with his new brothers , Finn and a thief Cotter . Intrigue is rife in King 's Landing , with Mira still searching for support from the Crown - and Mira faces the wrath of a yet unknown conspirator . In distant Yunkai , three days after Daenerys 's liberation , Asher and his female companion Beskha are visited by Malcolm Branfield , sent by his mother to bring him back to Ironrath . They must avoid the hostile sell - sword company the Lost Legion and escape the city . `` The Sword in the Darkness '' Graham Ross Dan Martin , John Dombrow and Joshua Rubin March 24 , 2015 ( 2015 - 03 - 24 ) Asher sets off for Meereen in hope of finding an army to lead in the fight against the House Whitehill . Meanwhile , in King 's Landing , Mira , caught in the city 's political turmoil following the recent events , is still at work finding a powerful ally to aid her family in their struggle . In Ironrath , the Whitehill takeover , with Ludd Whitehill and his son Gryff at its helm , drags on . At his father 's command , Gryff Whitehill , set to prove himself worthy of handling a settlement of his own , pressures Rodrik Forrester and his house to succumb to Whitehill rule . At the Wall , Gared finds out that he must head north in order to assure his family 's safety . Before he can leave , he is confronted by Britt , one of the men , now a member of the Night 's Watch , who murdered his father . `` Sons of Winter '' Kent Mudle Nicole Martinez and Brad Kane May 26 , 2015 ( 2015 - 05 - 26 ) In hopes of reclaiming Ironrath , Rodrik Forrester allies with Elaena and Arthur Glenmore who share his hatred of the Whitehills . Together , they devise a plan to inconspicuously take out Gryff Whitehill . In King 's Landing , now a city in turmoil following the murder of King Joffrey , Mira Forrester attends a banquet hoping to find what the Whitehills plan to do to defeat her house . At the Wall , Gared is imprisoned following his actions ; but soon escapes with his friend Cotter and heads for the North Grove , facing the wilding hunters along the way . In Essos , outside the slave city of Meereen , Asher , Beskha and Malcolm meet Daenerys Targaryen who offers them an army in exchange for the guide through Meereen , Beskha 's hometown . 5 `` A Nest of Vipers '' Jason Latino Meghan Thorton and Brad Kane July 21 , 2015 ( 2015 - 07 - 21 ) As punishment for Rodrik 's retaliation against Gryff , Ramsay Snow decides to no longer take sides and tells the Forresters and the Whitehills to fight each other to the death . Based on the player 's decisions , Talia finds out that Duncan / Royland is the traitor of the family and Rodrik declares war on the rival house . In Essos , Asher , Beskha and Malcolm are forced to look for another group of soldiers after their bargain with Daenerys Targaryen fails . Asher manages to convince a group of ruthless mercenaries to join his family 's fight in Westeros . Malcolm decides to remain in Essos serving Daenerys . Beyond the Wall , Gared and his companions locate Cotter 's sister , but they are ambushed by wights and thus forced to keep searching for the North Grove . In King 's Landing , Mira is intimidated by Cersei and forced to retrieve information from Tyrion in the Black Cells . As Asher and Beskha reach the North with their group of soldiers and meet Rodrik , the reunited brothers and their army are ambushed by Gryff 's men . The player is then given the choice of who should survive : Asher or Rodrik . 6 `` The Ice Dragon '' Kent Mudle Andrew Grant and James Windeler November 17 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 17 ) Following the Whitehill ambush , Asher / Rodrik must return to Ironrath with the mercenaries to prepare for the coming battle with the Whitehills . Ludd Whitehill approaches Ironrath with his army to offer terms for their surrender and offers the body of the deceased protagonist who was previously slain . The Forresters plan to attempt to kill Ludd Whitehill in order to cause chaos in his army 's ranks and rescue Ryon . However , the plan results in Ludd 's all - out attack on Ironrath , resulting in the death of Ludd or his son Gryff Whitehill . However the Whitehill army breaks down the gate , leading to the fall of Ironrath and the death of most of its inhabitants including Lady Forrester . Although wounded , Asher / Rodrik was safely evacuated at the last moment by his sentinel and is reunited with Talia and either the traitor to the Forresters , the sentinel , or Gwyn Whitehill . Meanwhile , Beskha managed to evacuate Ryon from Ironrath while Gared finally arrives at the North Grove and must hold off wights and take care of Cotter , who is unlikely to survive from his infected wound while learning that Josera and Elsera , the bastard son and daughter of the late Lord Forrester inhabit and protect the North Grove . Josera has the ability to warg into animals and controls a polar bear while his sister practices blood magic to bind the other inhabitants of the North Grove to her will . At King 's landing , after losing the protection of Margaery Tyrell , Mira and her friend Tom try to avoid the Lannister guards while discovering that a former ally has been plotting against her this whole time . Mira is captured and must decide if she will face execution or allow Tom to die in her place .