Name Hometown Ethnicity Biography Deena Nicole Cortese Seasons 3 - 6 New Egypt , New Jersey Italian American Cortese , a longtime friend of Polizzi , had originally auditioned for season 1 and been rejected . She eventually joins the cast starting in season 3 . She describes herself as a `` blast in a glass '' . Paul DelVecchio `` Pauly D '' Johnston , Rhode Island Italian American DelVecchio is a disc jockey from Johnston , Rhode Island outside of Providence . He strikes up a brief romance with fellow castmate Farley but the relationship does not progress . DelVecchio was nominated for the 2010 `` America 's Best DJ '' competition . Jennifer Farley `` JWoww '' Franklin Square , New York Irish - Spanish American Farley is a graphic designer and club promoter from Franklin Square , New York . During the casting process , she stated , `` I thought the guys would be enormous and really mean , and I thought the girls would be catty and overdone . '' She enters the shore house with a steady relationship at home but cheats on her boyfriend with castmate DelVecchio and ends her relationship in season 3 episode 4 for different reasons . Farley has had breast augmentation surgery , which she got as a birthday present to herself just before turning 21 . Samantha Giancola `` Sammi Sweetheart '' Hazlet , New Jersey Italian - Greek American Giancola is from Hazlet , New Jersey and is recently single at the start of the series . She attended William Paterson University and was a midfielder on the women 's soccer team . Giancola ultimately strikes up a relationship with fellow castmate Ortiz - Magro in season 1 episode 3 . Vinny Guadagnino Staten Island , New York Italian American 21 - year - old Guadagnino comes from a traditional Italian American family in Staten Island . A graduate of the State University of New York at New Paltz who had plans to attend law school if acting did not work out . Guadagnino applied after a friend sent him an application asking for `` the orangest , most muscley , spiky - haired people '' , which Guadagnino filled out `` as a joke '' . Describing first meeting his castmates , he says , `` I see Pauly and his spiky hair and his whole guido look . Great , they found the most stereotypical kid . Then Snooki seems like a train wreck . But you realize we 're all starting this crazy new adventure . '' Ronnie Ortiz - Magro Bronx , New York Italian - Puerto Rican American Ortiz - Magro is from The Bronx in New York City . He strikes up a relationship with castmate Giancola . Angelina Pivarnick Seasons 1 & 2 Staten Island , New York Polish - Italian American Pivarnick is a New York City bartender . She starts out the season with a serious relationship at home , but the two break up in episode 3 , which indirectly leads to her eviction from the shore house after refusing to work her shift in the T - shirt shop . Pivarnick again departed the house during Season 2 , after violent confrontations with Mike and Nicole . She did not return for Season 3 . She calls herself the `` Kim Kardashian of Staten Island '' , but is mocked by other cast members as the `` Staten Island dump '' or the `` Rob Kardashian of Staten Island '' . Pivarnick made brief cameos during Seasons 5 & 6 . Nicole Polizzi `` Snooki '' Marlboro , New York Chilean ( adopted by Italian - American parents ) Polizzi is from Marlboro , New York , and is an aspiring veterinary technician . She applied to an ad on Facebook that said `` Calling all guidos and guidettes , '' which Polizzi said , `` was definitely about my lifestyle . '' Polizzi earned the nickname `` Snooki '' in middle school after being the first of her friends to `` make out '' with a boy . She became the center of controversy when a man punched her in her face during a bar confrontation . Polizzi was arrested by Seaside police on July 30 , 2010 on public intoxication charges , which were later dropped . She previously suffered from an eating disorder in high school . Michael Sorrentino `` The Situation '' Staten Island , New York Italian American Sorrentino , an assistant manager of a fitness center in Staten Island , develops an attraction towards Giancola , which does not come into fruition when she becomes interested in fellow castmate Ortiz - Magro . Sorrentino worked as an exotic dancer in 2004 . In the 2010 season of Dancing with the Stars , he partnered with Karina Smirnoff , but was eliminated in week 4 . He also appeared on the British television show Celebrity Big Brother in August 2012 .