Toronto Star journalist Nick Krewen , who attended the opening date , gave it a score of four - out - of - four , writing `` ( the ) stellar tour kickoff delivers the hits and the spectacle ... Even with some of the most elaborate , sophisticated visual technology available at his disposal , pop superstar Justin Timberlake managed to have his campfire moment at the Air Canada Centre Tuesday night . With a literal campfire . '' Chicago Tribune 's Bob Gendron , who attended the show at the United Center , praised the spectacle and said `` Parade leader . Spurned lover . Assertive dancer . Down - on - his - knees relationship savior . Bartender who handed shots out to his large ensemble . Outdoors lover who gathered around a campfire to play familiar songs . Timberlake embraced an array of roles , blurring the lines between entertainer , singer and actor . '' Adam Graham of the Detroit News wrote it `` was an engrossing spectacle that turned the arena into his personal wooded playland ; no concert artist has come close to using Little Caesars Arena 's space this creatively , save for perhaps Lady Gaga . ( ... ) Timberlake was cool and commanding , taking the stage in a jean jacket and track pants and still looking like he owned the place . '' Graham also praised Timberlake 's band the Tennessee Kids , `` ( they ) became his own E Street Band -- there were times , especially when the band turned around and played to the fans at the back of the arena , that the show recalled a Bruce Springsteen concert . '' For GQ , Alim Kheraj , after attending the concert at London 's O2 Arena , deemed Timberlake `` one of the greatest live performers of all time . '' He considered `` Timberlake and the Man of the Woods Tour has as its secret weapon : captivation . With more than two decades of experience in the entertainment industry , he knows how to maintain an audience 's attention , how to mould them so they 're pumped at his signals and ( mostly ) when to take his foot off the accelerator . ( ... ) Similarly , unlike a legacy artist , his show is still exciting , carefully crafted to bring fans the best in audio - visual technology while ensuring that , musically , things line up too . ''