As the War of the Five Kings progresses , Sansa 's position in Kings Landing becomes more perilous . On Joffrey 's name day celebration , Sansa saves an inebriated Ser Dontos Hollard from execution , convincing Joffrey to instead make Dontos his fool . While at the celebration , Tyrion offers his condolences for Ned 's death , in which Sansa insists her family are all traitors and that she is loyal to Joffrey . Later on , when her eldest brother Robb wins a battle against the Lannisters , Sansa is publicly beaten and humiliated in front of the court by Joffrey and Ser Meryn ( on Joffrey 's orders ) , as payment for her brother 's crimes . Tyrion Lannister enters the court and rescues Sansa . Despite being a dwarf , Tyrion takes pity on Sansa 's situation , and offers to have the engagement called off . Sansa maintains her facade that she is loyal to Joffrey , which impresses Tyrion to the point of believing Sansa might just survive Kings Landing . Tyrion has his lover , Shae , positioned as Sansa 's handmaiden . Sansa and Shae form a friendship , in which Sansa is able to vent about her hatred of the Lannisters without fear of being revealed . Sansa is present when the royal family bids farewell to Joffrey 's sister , Myrcella , on her departure to Dorne to form an alliance between the Lannisters and the Martells . While returning to the Red Keep , a riot breaks out in the streets of Kings Landing , amidst which Sansa finds herself caught in the fray . Three peasant men chase Sansa and attempt to rape her , before she is rescued and returned to the castle by Sandor Clegane . The following morning , Sansa has a nightmare of the incident , and wakes up in a bloodstained bed . Sansa had flowered , which meant she could bear Joffrey children . Sansa and Shae attempt to conceal this , which involved Shae threatening to kill a witness handmaiden if she told anyone . However , Sandor Clegane sees the blood , and both Cersei and Joffrey are informed . Cersei invites Sansa to her chambers to share some of her wisdom and experience as a wife and a mother . Cersei reminisces that her husband Robert was not interested in her giving childbirth . Cersei explains to Sansa that while Sansa may never love Joffrey ( and vice versa ) , she will love his children . Cersei warns Sansa that the more people she loves , the weaker she will be . Therefore , Sansa should only love her children , as it is the only love she has no choice in . Before the battle of the Blackwater , Joffrey forces Sansa to kiss the blade of his sword , while bragging he will kill Stannis himself . Sansa implicitly taunts Joffrey by remarking he must be battling in the vanguard ( which of course he would not be ) . Joffrey responds to this by insisting Sansa will kiss the blade again with Stannis ' blood on it . During the battle , Sansa takes refuge with Cersei , Shae and the other women and children of Kings Landing . A drunk Cersei openly torments Sansa and the women . She does this by explaining that if the city falls , they will all be raped and have bastards in their bellies come morning . Cersei continues her taunting by also telling Sansa that tears are not the only weapons women have ; the greatest weapon they own are between their legs . Following Cersei 's departure from the refuge with Tommen , Sansa leaves to hide in her bedchamber , where she finds Sandor Clegane . Sandor , about to leave Kings Landing , offers to take Sansa home . Sansa declines , insisting Stannis would not harm her . After the battle is won by the Lannister - Tyrell forces , Loras Tyrell asks Joffrey to take his sister , Margaery , as his bride . Joffrey accepts the proposal , which annuls his marriage with Sansa . Sansa , while pretending to be devastated , is secretly delighted she no longer has to marry Joffrey . However Petyr Baelish warns that while Sansa is no longer engaged , Joffrey would have greater rein to abuse Sansa , especially now she is a woman . Petyr assures Sansa he will help get her home , in which Sansa once again displays a facade , asserting Kings Landing is her home . Petyr advises Sansa that everyone in Kings Landing is a liar , and that they are much more cunning at it than her .