Country Site / s Austria Hallstatt and Salzkammergut . Bosnia Tuzla Bulgaria Provadiya ; and Solnitsata , an ancient town believed by Bulgarian archaeologists to be the oldest in Europe and the site of a salt production facility approximately six millennia ago . Canada Sifto Salt Mine in Goderich , Ontario , which , at 1.5 miles ( 2.4 km ) wide and 2 miles ( 3.2 km ) long , is one of the largest salt mines in the world extending 7 km ( 2.7 sq mi ) . Colombia Zipaquirá England The `` - wich towns '' of Cheshire and Worcestershire . Ethiopia , Eritrea , Djibouti Danakil Desert , where manual labor is used . Germany Rheinberg , Berchtesgaden , Heilbronn Italy Racalmuto , Realmonte and Petralia Soprana within the production sites managed by Italkali . Morocco JMS salt mine in Khemisset . N. Ireland Kilroot , near Carrickfergus , more than a century old and containing passages whose combined length exceeds 25 km . Pakistan Khewra Salt Mines , the world 's second largest salt - mining operation , spanning over 300 km . Poland Wieliczka and Bochnia , both established in the mid-13th century and still operating , mostly as museums . Kłodawa Salt Mine . Romania Slănic ( with Salina Veche , Europe 's largest salt mine ) , Cacica , Ocnele Mari , Salina Turda , Târgu Ocna , Ocna Sibiului , Praid and Salina Ocna Dej . Russia Solikamsk United States Hutchinson , Kansas , Underground mining began at Hutchinson in 1923 . In 1990 the Hutchinson Salt Company was formed and purchased the mine . Avery Island , Louisiana ; Detroit , Michigan , 1,100 feet ( 340 m ) beneath which the Detroit Salt Company 's 1,500 - acre ( 10 km ) subterranean complex extends ; Saltville , Virginia , which served as the site of one of the Confederacy 's main saltworks . Western New York and Central New York , location of American Rock Salt , the largest operating salt mine in the United States with a capacity for producing up to 18,000 tons each day . Syracuse earned the nickname `` The Salt City '' for its salt mining , an activity that continues in the region to the present day . Houston , Texas , near Minute Maid Park is a newly discovered saltworks . Grand Saline in East Texas has a Morton Salt mine . It is one of the largest in the world .