The application layer is the scope within which applications create user data and communicate this data to other applications on another or the same host . The applications , or processes , make use of the services provided by the underlying , lower layers , especially the Transport Layer which provides reliable or unreliable pipes to other processes . The communications partners are characterized by the application architecture , such as the client - server model and peer - to - peer networking . This is the layer in which all higher level protocols , such as SMTP , FTP , SSH , HTTP , operate . Processes are addressed via ports which essentially represent services . The transport layer performs host - to - host communications on either the same or different hosts and on either the local network or remote networks separated by routers . It provides a channel for the communication needs of applications . UDP is the basic transport layer protocol , providing an unreliable datagram service . The Transmission Control Protocol provides flow - control , connection establishment , and reliable transmission of data . The internet layer has the task of exchanging datagrams across network boundaries . It provides a uniform networking interface that hides the actual topology ( layout ) of the underlying network connections . It is therefore also referred to as the layer that establishes internetworking , indeed , it defines and establishes the Internet . This layer defines the addressing and routing structures used for the TCP / IP protocol suite . The primary protocol in this scope is the Internet Protocol , which defines IP addresses . Its function in routing is to transport datagrams to the next IP router that has the connectivity to a network closer to the final data destination . The link layer defines the networking methods within the scope of the local network link on which hosts communicate without intervening routers . This layer includes the protocols used to describe the local network topology and the interfaces needed to effect transmission of Internet layer datagrams to next - neighbor hosts .