Para ( Special Forces ) : Formed in 1966 , the Para ( SF ) are the largest and most important part of the Special Forces of India . They are a part of the highly trained Parachute Regiment of the Indian Army . The main aim of having a Parachute Regiment is for quick deployment of soldiers behind the enemy lines to attack the enemy from behind and destroy their first line of defence . Para ( SF ) conducted a series of joint exercises with US army special forces called Vajra Prahar . Ghatak Force : Ghatak Platoon , or Ghatak Commandos , is a special operations capable infantry platoon . There is one platoon in every infantry battalion in the Indian Army . Ghatak is a Hindi word meaning `` killer '' or `` lethal '' . They act as shock troops and spearhead assaults ahead of the battalion . Their operational role is similar to Scout Sniper Platoon , STA platoon of the U.S. Marine Corp and the Patrols platoon of the British Army . A Ghatak Platoon is usually 20 - men strong , consisting of a commanding captain , 2 non-commissioned officers and some special teams like marksman and spotter pairs , light machine gunners , a medic , and a radio operator . The remaining soldiers act as assault troopers . Most undergo training at the Commando Training Course in Belagavi , Karnataka . Often , other specialised training like heliborne assault , rock climbing , mountain warfare , demolitions , advanced weapons training , close quarter battle and infantry tactics are also given . Members of the platoon are also sent to the High Altitude Warfare School and Counterinsurgency and Jungle Warfare School . Marine Commandos ( MARCOS ) : Marine Commandos ( MARCOS ) is an elite special operations unit of the Indian Navy . It is specially organised , trained and equipped for the conduct of special operations in a maritime environment . The force has gradually acquired experience and a reputation for professionalism over the two decades it has been in existence . Now it is one of the finest Special Forces units in the world and among the few units qualified to jump in the water with a full combat load . The MARCOS are capable of undertaking operations in all types of terrain , but are specialised in maritime operations in Jammu and Kashmir through the Jhelum River and Wular Lake . To strengthen its capabilities to carry out special operations , the navy is planning to procure advanced Integrated Combat System ( ICS ) for the MARCOS . The Navy wants the ICS for effective command , control and information sharing to maximise capabilities of individuals and groups of the MARCOS while engaging enemies . The individual equipment required by the navy in the ICS includes light weight helmets , head - mounted displays , tactical and soft ballistic vests along with communication equipment . The group - level gear requirements include command and control and surveillance systems along with high speed communication equipment . Garud Commando Force : The Garud Commando Force is the Special Forces unit of the Indian Air Force . It was formed in September 2004 and has a strength of approximately 2000 personnel . The unit derives its name from Garuda , a divine bird - like creature of Hindu Mythology . Garud is tasked with the protection of critical Air Force bases and installations ; search and rescue during peace and hostilities and disaster relief during calamities . Garuds are deployed in the Congo as part of the UN peace keeping operations .