Madison believed that British economic policies designed to foster imperial preference were harming the American economy and that as British North America existed , here was a conduit for American strugglers who were undercutting his trade policies , which thus required that the United States annex British North America . Furthermore , Madison believed that the Great Lakes - St. Lawrence trade route might become the main trade route for the export of North American goods to Europe at the expense of the U.S. economy , and if the United States controlled the resources of British North America like timber which the British needed for their navy , then Britain would be forced to change its maritime policies which had so offended American public opinion . Many Americans believed it was only natural that their country should swallow up North America with one Congressman , John Harper saying in a speech that `` the Author of Nature Himself had marked our limits in the south , by the Gulf of Mexico and on the north , by the regions of eternal frost '' . Upper Canada ( modern southern Ontario ) had been settled mostly by Revolution - era exiles from the United States ( United Empire Loyalists ) or postwar American immigrants . The Loyalists were hostile to union with the United States , while the immigrant settlers were generally uninterested in politics and remained neutral or supported the British during the war . The Canadian colonies were thinly populated and only lightly defended by the British Army . Americans then believed that many men in Upper Canada would rise up and greet an American invading army as liberators . That did not happen . One reason American forces retreated after one successful battle inside Canada was that they could not obtain supplies from the locals . But the Americans thought that the possibility of local support suggested an easy conquest , as former President Thomas Jefferson believed : `` The acquisition of Canada this year , as far as the neighborhood of Quebec , will be a mere matter of marching , and will give us the experience for the attack on Halifax , the next and final expulsion of England from the American continent . ''