Bobby Proud ( voiced by Cedric the Entertainer , Arsenio Hall in the movie ) : Oscar 's older brother , Suga Mama 's eldest son , Trudy 's brother - in - law and Penny , Bebe and CeCe 's uncle . He is a fan of groups like Kool & The Gang among others . He sings and talks like the lead singers of the 1970s funk bands Cameo ( Larry Blackmon ) , The Ohio Players ( Sugarfoot ) and The Commodores ( Lionel Richie ) . He has a 1959 Cadillac Eldorado that only plays one song and has hydraulics and also a parachute for some safety reasons ( as shown in the episode `` Thelma and Luis '' when Suga Mama and Papi accidentally drive it off the Grand Canyon and the parachute saves them ) . Suga Mama favors him over Oscar . He often has Oscar do things that annoy him very often , but ironically lead to Oscar meeting beautiful women . For example , he gets Oscar to be an Ice Cream man at a basketball game , which leads to one of the cheerleaders asking Oscar out on a date . Bobby and his band , DisFunkshunal Junction , are a clear parody of band leader George Clinton ( also known as Dr. Funkenstein ) and his band Parliament - Funkadelic , also known as P - Funk . Bobby reveals in the episode `` She Drives Me Crazy '' that the band is from East St. Louis , Illinois . Wizard Kelly ( voiced by Aries Spears ) : the mayor of the town , whose face is never seen ( except a very brief scene in the film ) . Kelly is an incredibly wealthy , very smart and famous businessman who made his fortune playing professional basketball . He is a parody of NBA Legend , Magic Johnson . Smart Baby / Red - Nosed Baby ( voiced by Ron Glass ) : An infant with a droll expression , who enjoys harassing Oscar . Whenever Oscar tries to expose him he responds as if he is just a regular baby , with a `` Goo Goo '' . Despite him being a baby he is shown to be able to speak as if he were an adult . Felix Boulevardez ( voiced by Carlos Mencia ) : Oscar 's neighbor and best friend . ( Oscar and Felix were also the names of the lead characters from the TV sitcom The Odd Couple ) . He is the father of LaCienega and the husband of Sunset . He and Oscar often get into trouble together . He and Oscar have a lot in common ; both have dominating wives , both have parents living in their home ( Oscar has Suga Mama and Felix has Papi ) and both have teenage daughters . The differences between them is that Oscar is tall and skinny and Felix is short and overweight , and Felix is also richer and more successful than Oscar at everything , but that does not affect their friendship . They are also very strict with their daughters hanging out with boys . Sunset Boulevardez ( voiced by Maria Canals ) : Felix 's wife and Trudy 's best friend . She is the mother of LaCienega , the wife of Felix and is a police officer . Papi Boulevardez ( voiced by Alvaro Gutierrez ) : Felix 's father , Sunset 's father - in - law and Suga Mama 's love interest . He is the grandfather of LaCienega . He speaks only Spanish and as a result he can get away with insulting Suga Mama . However , Suga Mama believes that he is sweet - talking her which increases her affection towards Papi . He is also known for his trademark cackling when after he insults Suga Mama or on some occasions . Ironically in The Proud Family Movie , Papi becomes enamored with the Spanish speaking clone of Sugar Mama , who promptly beat him up when he insulted her . Papi is a parody of Cesar Romero 's character The Joker on the 1966 TV series Batman ( as Romero was of Spanish descent and his laugh is reminiscent of the Joker 's ) . Michael Collins ( voiced by Phil LaMarr ) : Penny 's flamboyant friend . Due to his effeminate interests , he is often bullied . However , he does stand - up for himself and sometimes gets over excited . In addition to this , his father is ashamed of him and often tells him to call him coach in public . Dr. Payne ( voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson ) : The doctor , whose build and mannerisms are based on those of Mr. T. Oscar usually suffers painful treatment at his hands . He calls Penny `` Itty Bitty '' and Sugar Mama `` Sugar Bear '' . Peabo ( voiced by Cree Summer ) : The Prouds ' 9 - year - old neighbor . He is very smart and often tries to warn Oscar whenever Oscar does something dangerous , though Oscar never listens and suffers for it . He is the only one who likes Proud Snacks . He at first has a crush on Penny , then Zoey , and ends up dating one of Dijonay 's sisters . Lil ' Wiz ( voiced by Aries Spears ) : Wizard Kelly 's son .