Big A was the person who took over the `` A '' game from Mona Vanderwaal after she was admitted to Radley Sanitarium and revealed to be CeCe Drake . She had visited Mona in Radley and used her to get information about the Liars before taking over the game herself and had used Mona , Toby and Spencer to do her dirty work and sometimes went under the Red Coat disguise . Big A often hid out at a lair situated in Room A at an apartment building at Mayflower Hill and a mobile RV which was stolen but Toby gave it back to `` A '' in exchange for information about his mother 's death . However , the Team was disbanded in the third - season finale and CeCe acted on her own with a few minions and an ally , who is Sara Harvey . It is revealed that Charlotte had been hiding out in the basement of the DiLaurentis house and drilled holes through the floor to spy on the family in her Red Coat disguise and shared the identity with Alison . Her disguise as Red Coat was exposed in the fourth season mid finale when Emily was trapped on a saw at Ravenswood and later got into a fight with Aria who discovered her identity and Charlotte later fell off a platform and escaped . In `` A is for Answers '' the Liars are under attack by `` A '' who shoots Ezra Fitz on the rooftop . However , in the fifth - season premiere , the shooter is revealed to be Shana Fring who attempted to kill Alison but was later shoved off a stage by Aria and died from the impact . After all of this , Charlotte fled to France under the Vivian Darkbloom identity to escape custody for Wilden 's death but returned . In the series 's 100 episode , Charlotte placed a bomb in the Cavanaugh house which detonated , signalling her return to Rosewood . In season five , CeCe breaks into the Vanderwaal home and kidnaps Mona just as she is about to tell the Liars that Alison is `` A '' and covers up her kidnapping as a homicide . She then brings Mona to the Dollhouse and tortures her and forces her to dress up and act like Alison . Just as the Liars are being brought to jail , CeCe kidnaps them and tortures them inside the Dollhouse . Inside , the Liars discover that Big `` A '' is named Charles DiLaurentis . CeCe / Charlotte reveals herself as `` A '' and tells her story ; saying that she is transgender , was formerly known as Charles DiLaurentis , and became ' A ' because the Liars were happy that Alison was gone . She worked with Sara Harvey , who was the Black Widow and a decoy Red Coat , and was also responsible for the `` death '' of Alison and the death of Wilden , and after telling her story , she attempts suicide by jumping off Radley but is stopped . She is admitted to Welby State and her reign as `` A '' finally ends and stays in the psychiatric hospital for five years . When she is released , Charlotte is murdered by Mona Vanderwaal and her death causes the birth of `` A.D. '' , the new Uber A. After her death , it is revealed that Noel Kahn and Jenna Marshall were also working for Charlotte . It is also revealed that her birth mother is Jessica 's twin , Mary Drake , and her birth father is Ted Wilson , while Spencer is her sister . The series finale reveals that `` A.D. '' is her sister and Spencer 's twin , Alex Drake , whom Charlotte met after boarding the plane to France . She and Alex become very close after meeting , until Charlotte returned to Rosewood to play the game some more . Alex reveals that Charlotte never returned to her in London and the next time she saw her was when she visited her grave .