The Man in Black 's earliest chronological appearance occurs in the sixth - season episode `` Across the Sea '' , which depicted his birth on the island to a woman named Claudia ( Lela Loren ) , whose ship wrecked off - shore . An unnamed woman on the Island ( Allison Janney ) delivers him and his twin brother Jacob but killed their mother and raised them herself . Jacob is swaddled in light cloth , while the Man in Black in dark . The woman raises the twins to be ignorant of a world beyond the island and of death itself . She also raises them to be distrustful of humanity , whom she regards as corrupt and dangerous . At age thirteen , the twins discover the other survivors of Claudia 's ship on the island , and their adoptive mother takes them to a mysterious cave filled with light with a stream running into it . She tells them it is `` the heart of the island '' , and one day they will be its caretakers . Soon after , Claudia 's ghost appears to the young Man in Black , and tells him the truth . After he confronts his adoptive mother with this , he leaves to join Claudia 's crew . Jacob visits his brother at the survivors ' camp at various points over the course of the next 30 years , during which time the Man in Black comes to believe his mother was right in calling humanity inherently corrupt . Despite this , he stays with the crew , because they are a means to his finding a way off the island , which involves their use of the island 's strange electromagnetic properties . When the woman learns this , she appoints Jacob as the new caretaker of `` the heart of the Island . '' She then visits the Man in Black at the bottom of a well , where he is planning to install a wheel to enable his use of the energy to leave the island . She knocks him unconscious , and then apparently massacres the people in the camp and destroys the well . Enraged , the Man in Black kills her with a dagger . Jacob retaliates by beating his brother and throwing him in the stream leading down the tunnel of light . A cloud of black smoke then emerges from the cave , suggesting it is the Man in Black 's consciousness . After a while , Jacob finds the Man in Black 's body in a pool nearby , and places it in a cave with his adoptive mother 's corpse , along with a pouch containing the black and white stones they used in their game as children . It is consequently suggested that the black smoke 's ability to take shape of dead people on the island led it to adopt the Man in Black 's shape .