# Title Directed by Written by Original air date UK viewers ( millions ) `` Episode 1 '' John Morton John Morton 19 March 2014 ( 2014 - 03 - 19 ) 2.47 Fletcher takes up his new job as Head of Values at the BBC just as accusations of anti-Cornish bias are levelled at the Corporation , compounded when a Spotlight Southwest presenter , Sally Wingate , goes public in support of the accusations . Producer Lucy Freeman chairs a meeting about forthcoming flagship show Britain 's Tastiest Village and the loss of presenter Clare Balding and her replacement by Carol Vorderman . Featuring as themselves : Carol Vorderman , Clare Balding , Alan Yentob , Salman Rushdie `` Episode 2 '' John Morton John Morton 26 March 2014 ( 2014 - 03 - 26 ) 1.94 Fletcher reluctantly takes the train North to BBC Media City , Salford , for his first big interview in the job by Jenni Murray on Radio 4 's Woman 's Hour where he hopes to defuse the media storm that has become known as Wingategate . Complications arise for the Britain 's Tastiest Village production team , after having wooed and won Carol Vorderman as Clare Balding 's replacement to co-present with Alan Titchmarsh . However , at the last minute Clare Balding is available and turns up at New Broadcasting House as Carol Vorderman is leaving and they have to be kept apart . In Salford Fletcher ignores advisors Sharpe and Pritchard with his own solution to both problems resulting in Alan Titchmarsh pulling out . Featuring as themselves : Carol Vorderman , Jenni Murray , Clare Balding `` Episode 3 '' John Morton John Morton 2 April 2014 ( 2014 - 04 - 02 ) 1.61 Anna Rampton advocates moving Songs of Praise to radio , thus freeing up a prime slot for her own series , Britain 's Tastiest Village . The debate about the future of the BBC is not helped when Ian Fletcher 's salary comes under intense scrutiny in the press . Neil Reid , current Controller of Current Affairs , is having to deal with the fallout from a blunder in BBC News coverage of the Syrian crisis when a photo of Trudie Styler was used instead of Asma al - Assad . Producer Lucy Freeman goes in to pitch Home Truth , a script she 's been developing over several years with writer Dan Shepherd . Siobhan Sharpe and her team at Perfect Curve are asked to refresh the BBC logo and come to the conclusion that the problem with the current logo is that it has too many letters . `` Episode 4 '' John Morton John Morton 9 April 2014 ( 2014 - 04 - 09 ) 1.64 A national paper has not only published details of Ian Fletcher 's salary but followed up with a story of how he took Sally Owen , his PA at the Olympic Deliverance Commission , on holiday to Italy . So the BBC can either stand by their man or get him to pre-empt potential criticism by persuading him to cut his own salary . Meanwhile , a female Newsnight presenter has been accused of wearing clothes that are inappropriately watchable . When the name of the programme becomes known as Kneesnight and her legs get their own Twitter account there is a feeling something should be done about it . Flagship series Britain 's Tastiest Village has lost all three of the big - name presenters who were attached to do the show -- so the search continues . And brand consultant Siobhan Sharpe and her team unveil their barnstorming idea for a new BBC logo .