( show ) Table of versions : iOS 4.0. x -- iPod Touch and iPhone only iPhone family : 3G 3GS 4 iPod family : 2 3 Limited support on iPhone 3G and iPod Touch ( 2nd generation ) Version Build Baseband Release date Features 4.0 8A293 05.13. 04 01.59. 00 June 21 , 2010 ; 7 years ago ( 2010 - 06 - 21 ) Initial release on iPhone 4 Multitasking . User interface for app switching by double clicking Home button . Portrait orientation lock . iPod control widget . FaceTime direct video calling ability over Wi - Fi ( iPhone 4 and later , iPod Touch ( 4th generation ) , iPad 2 , and OS X users ) . iBooks sync support through iTunes for iPhone and iPod Touch . iAd mobile advertising network . Settings App - specific location settings . Cellular data toggle ( on - off ) . `` Complex Password '' setting : passwords with alphabet characters and numbers . Simple Passcode Lock ( 4 digit number ) option . New wallpapers . Wallpaper available for Home screen . New wallpaper preview for Home screen and lock screen . Set up Internet tethering . New Gmail and Exchange icons in Mail , Contacts , Calendars account settings . Support multiple Exchange accounts . Custom Dictionary . Airplane Mode for iPod Touch . Separated Sounds settings from General settings . Home screen Ability to categorise apps into folders with default folder naming based on category name in App Store . Up to 2,160 instead of 180 visible apps ( 12 apps per folder ) . Folder name supports up to 13 characters . Custom Home screen wallpaper . Dock redesigned to that of the iPad . Rate on deleting app removed . Default Utilities folder which contains the Clock , Calculator , Voice Memos and Compass apps . Revised SpringBoard scrolling . Camera Up to 5x digital ( as opposed to optical ) zoom feature on the Camera app . Photos Categorised by Albums , Faces , Events and Places ( under iPhoto in OS X ) . Select multiple photos for mass deletion . Support landscape mode . Camera Roll Categorisation by All , Photos and Videos . Support landscape mode . App Store Ability to gift apps . Maps Unified `` locate me '' icon . Background location icon shown on status bar . iPod Playlist creation on device . Nested playlists . Lyrics and Podcast info on Setting . Volume control with Bluetooth headsets . Album art displayed in Album view . Notes Notes syncing with MobileMe , Gmail IMAP and Yahoo ! Mail . Accounts management appears if syncing is enabled . Notes setting below Mail , Contacts , Calendars Settings if syncing is enabled . Moved search box into title bar . Calendar Birthday calendar . CalDAV invitations . Ability to edit which calendar an event is located in after the initial saving . Ability to select any combination of calendar categories to view . Contacts Unified info by linking contacts from different accounts . CardDAV . Streamlined `` New Contact '' screen . Spotlight Search with Web or Wikipedia . Search Messages . Safari ( Webkit version 532.9 ) Bing is now a search option , along with Google and Yahoo ! . Recent searches below search field . Top hit in search . Suggestions appear below search field for all 3 search engines . Unified `` Search '' keyboard button when search field being used . In - page audio playback . Voice control The ability to ask what the current time is . YouTube Rotate & zoom videos in vertical and horizontal position . Latest 480p for smoother and quicker video playback . Accessibility Larger fonts in Mail , SMS & alerts . Automatically speak auto - corrections and auto - capitalisations . Message Include a Search bar . Character count ( can be enabled or disabled in Settings > Messages screen ) . Failed SMS notification . Option to toggle off the ability to send group messages . Mail Unified inboxes . Edit from outbox . Support for multiple Exchange accounts . File & delete Mail search results . Organise by thread in Mail . Quick look attachments . Open attachments by registered filetype with corresponding apps from the App Store . Smart links for dates and addresses . Contact pictures in emails . Create Calendar events from dates within emails . International Spell check . Added Cangjie and Wubihua keyboards for Simplified and Traditional Chinese . Text replacement between Simplified and Traditional Chinese . Switch keyboard shortcut ( holding the `` Earth '' button on keyboard for a while ) . Added support for Danish voice control . New languages added ( Catalan , Hungarian , Vietnamese ) . Other Support for Apple Bluetooth keyboards . Persistent Wi - Fi . Added support for iBooks application . Wake on wireless . Auto - join and auto - login and IPv6 on individual Wi - Fi networks setting . Enhanced data protection . Wireless app distribution . Mobile device management . SSL VPN support ( both Juniper and Cisco ) . Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 support . Improved Bluetooth driver for A2DP devices . Improved iOS animations . Note : iPod Touch ( 1st generation ) , and iPhone ( 1st generation ) devices are not supported , while iPhone 3G , and iPod Touch ( 2nd generation ) have limited support . iPhone 4 , iPhone 3GS , iPod Touch ( 3rd & 4th generation ) are all fully supported . 4.0. 1 8A306 05.13. 04 01.59. 00 July 15 , 2010 ; 7 years ago ( 2010 - 07 - 15 ) iPhone only Updated carrier signal strength display . Increase in the length of the smaller signal bars . The method in which signal strength is calculated was modified ( as a result of the antennagate issue ) . Fixed Exchange ActiveSync issues . Only official SIM card number can be used for FaceTime identification . 4.0. 2 8A400 05.13. 04 01.59. 00 August 11 , 2010 ; 7 years ago ( 2010 - 08 - 11 ) Patches a PDF exploit which allowed jailbreaking through Safari .