In late 1925 , Stalin received a letter from a Party official which stated that his position of `` Socialism in One Country '' was in contradiction with Friedrich Engels ' writings on the subject . Stalin countered that Engels ' writings reflected `` the era of pre-monopoly capitalism , the pre-imperialist era when there were not yet the conditions of an uneven , abrupt development of the capitalist countries '' . From 1925 , Bukharin began writing extensively on the subject and in 1926 , Stalin wrote On Questions of Leninism , which contains his best - known writings on the subject . With the publishing of Leninism , Trotsky began countering Bukharin 's and Stalin 's arguments , writing that socialism in one country was only possible only in the short term , and said that without a world revolution it would be impossible to safeguard the Soviet Union from the `` restoration of bourgeois relations '' . Zinoviev disagreed with Trotsky and Bukharin , and Stalin ; he maintained Lenin 's position from 1917 to 1922 and continued to say that only a defective form of socialism could be constructed in the Soviet Union without a world revolution . Bukharin began arguing for the creation of an autarkic economic model , while Trotsky said that the Soviet Union had to participate in the international division of labour to develop . In contrast to Trotsky and Bukharin , in 1938 , Stalin said that a world revolution was impossible and that Engels was wrong on the matter . At the 18th Congress , Stalin took the theory to its inevitable conclusion , saying that the communist mode of production could be conceived in one country . He rationalized this by saying that the state could exist in a communist society as long as the Soviet Union was encircled by capitalism . However , with the establishment of socialist regimes in Eastern Europe , Stalin said that socialism in one country was only possible in a large country like the Soviet Union and that to survive , the other states had to follow the Soviet line .