The three questers have just escaped a bus , attacked by the three Furies , just after blowing it up , they become hopelessly lost ( Lost ! ) . In a frantic decision Percy orders them to enter `` Auntie Em 's empourium . '' The strange Auntie Em requests to take pictures of the three but is revealed to actually be Medusa . Percy cuts off her head with pen sword , Riptide and as a joke sends the head to the Gods over the mail . Annabeth seems particularly upset with this run in , while Grover scouts out their surroundings Percy confronts her about this . She confesses her whole life she has been ignored by everyone around her and is desperate for a chance to prove herself to Athena and make the history books . ( My Grand Plan ) Grover returns with train tickets to St. Louis and they set off , encountering a Chimera and Ares who gives them a lift to Nevada . ( Drive ) While on a bus ride to LA , Percy has a dream of a man speaking with someone who is referred to as Lord , the powerful voice mentions sacrifices and brings up a name ; Thalia . Percy wakes with a jolt and asks Grover if he has ever heard of Thalia . Grover confides that a few years back he was sent to escort Luke , Annabeth and Thalia Grace , Zeus ' daughter to camp . However , the team was attacked and Grover failed to save Thalia . He holds himself responsible and thinks Percy will be ashamed of him . ( Tree on the Hill ) Percy assures Grover that no matter who he is or what he does Percy will alway want him as a friend . The trio arive in the underworld where they are given a tour of the horror ( D.O.A ) . Percy realizes that the Lightning Bolt is hidden in his backpack and the three work out the possibilities of how it could have gotten there . An incident where Percy is nearly dragged into Tartarus by the shoes Luke gave him occurs and the group is discovered . After a brief conversation with an innocent Hades , Percy withdraws the shell from his pocket and blows it , opening a portal out of the underworld . Vowing to return to save his mom , Percy , Annabeth and Grover escape . Percy hypothesizes that Ares is the one who planted the bolt in his bag and coming to terms with himself and Poseidon . He declares himself a son of Posidon and uses his gift with water to best Ares . ( Son of Posidon ) The questers return to camp heros but Percy could n't be more troubled . He confides in Luke that he feels just as confused as before , Luke agrees stating he felt similar after his quest . Luke inadvertently tells Percy that he is the true lightning thief and he has teamed up with Kronos to get back at the gods , who he feels has done him wrong . ( Last Day of Summer ) Luke stabs Percy and escapes , Percy declares that there will be a war no matter how they try to stall it . ( Bring on the Monsters . )