Distinguishing between positive and negative can be difficult and may not always be necessary ; focusing on what is being removed or added and how it is being removed or added will determine the nature of the reinforcement . Negative reinforcement is not punishment . The two , as explained above , differ in the increase ( negative reinforcement ) or decrease ( punishment ) of the future probability of a response . In negative reinforcement , the stimulus removed following a response is an aversive stimulus ; if this stimulus were presented contingent on a response , it may also function as a positive punisher . The form of a stimulus is separate from its function in terms of whether it will reinforce or punish behavior . An event that may punish behavior for some may serve to reinforce behavior for others . Example : A child is repeatedly given detention for acting up in school , but the frequency of the bad behavior increases . Thus , the detention may be a reinforcer ( could be positive or negative ) ; perhaps the child now gets one - on - one attention from a teacher or perhaps they now avoid going home where they are often abused . Some reinforcement can be simultaneously positive and negative , such as a drug addict taking drugs for the added euphoria ( a positive feeling ) and eliminating withdrawal symptoms ( which would be a negative feeling ) . Or , in a warm room , a current of external air serves as positive reinforcement because it is pleasantly cool and as negative reinforcement because it removes uncomfortable hot air . Reinforcement in the business world is essential in driving productivity . Employees are constantly motivated by the ability to receive a positive stimulus , such as a promotion or a bonus . Employees are also driven by negative reinforcement . This can be seen when employees are offered Saturdays off if they complete the weekly workload by Friday . Though negative reinforcement has a positive effect in the short term for a workplace ( i.e. encourages a financially beneficial action ) , over-reliance on a negative reinforcement hinders the ability of workers to act in a creative , engaged way creating growth in the long term . Both positive and negative reinforcement increase behavior . Most people , especially children , will learn to follow instruction by a mix of positive and negative reinforcement .