Paige McCullers ( Lindsey Shaw ) ( season 1 -- 5 , 7 ) is a former captain of the swim team and the star swimmer in Emily 's absence . Jealous of Emily 's perceived ease of accomplishments , she makes homophobic remarks towards Emily and physically threatens her . She later apologizes to Emily , stating that she can understand if Emily hates her , because she hates herself . Later , she also apologizes for her father , who causes problems for Emily at school , as he believes Emily is getting preferential treatment for being gay . She then kisses Emily , revealing herself to be gay . The two begin an on - again , off - again relationship , which suffers due to Paige 's fear of being outed . Emily breaks up with Paige after Paige becomes jealous of Samara flirting with Emily . Near the end of the second season , Emily starts hanging out with Paige once more , who has finally come out to her parents . While trying to console Emily , who is upset about Maya 's disappearance , Paige tries to kiss Emily , but is rejected . Paige later apologizes and agrees that it 's best for the two of them to remain friends . In the third season , Paige and Emily find it hard to remain just friends . Paige confesses to Emily that Emily visited her one evening , and the two shared a drunken kiss . Emily realizes that she wants to move on from Maya 's death and rekindles her romance with Paige . When the Liars later suspect Paige of being `` A '' , Emily staunchly defends her , causing a rift between herself and the other Liars . However , once it revealed that Paige was being framed by `` A '' to look guilty , the Liars reconcile with Emily and accept Paige . At the beginning of season 4 , both declare their love for the other reaffirming their commitment . Their relationship at the end of season 4 however appears to be over due to Paige telling the cops that Ali is alive and thus breaking Emily 's trust in her . In season 5 , Paige moves to California with her family , and asks Emily to come with her but she refuses . In season 7 , Paige returns to Rosewood from California . McCullers becomes the swim coach for the Rosewood High swim team , after an injury tarnishes her chances at the Olympics . Emily and Paige rekindle their romance and Paige is there for Emily since she understands the threat of A.D. After discovering that Emily is going to help raise Alison 's child Paige goes to meet Alison . They discuss their years of hatred for each other and their feelings for Emily , both come to a mutual feeling of respect . Paige later ends her relationship with Emily when she sees her true feelings for Alison and realizes that Emily will never love her more than she loves Alison . Paige and Emily tearfully end their relationship and Paige leaves Emily and Rosewood for good .