After the risky surgery , Michael wakes up exhibiting uncontrollable fits of rage . Carly , who is dealing with a high - risk pregnancy , agrees to send Michael to live with the Quartermaines . Believing his family will be better off , Michael and Kristina ( Lexi Ainsworth ) skip town when he mistakenly believes that he caused an accident that led to his stepmother , Claudia ( Sarah Brown ) 's miscarriage . The teens soon return , and Michael suddenly begins uncovering memories from the coma . He eventually remembers that Claudia was the one responsible for his shooting . He goes to tell Sonny , only to find him confronting Claudia for the shooting . Claudia takes Carly hostage , and escapes . Michael is on his way out of town when he discovers Claudia 's car abandoned on the side of the road . Trying to stop Claudia from stealing his newborn sister Josslyn Jacks , Michael kills her and is forced to keep quiet . When Sonny is arrested for Claudia 's murder , Michael 's attempt to confess goes unnoticed , and he is soon sent to Sonny 's island . However , Sonny 's newfound son , Dante Falconeri ( Dominic Zamprogna ) finds Michael and brings him back , where he confesses under oath to Claudia 's murder . Michael is sent to prison , but Jason later pleads guilty to a felony with the condition that he receive the same sentence and will share a cell with Michael in order to protect him . Unfortunately , by the time Jason gets there , Michael has been attacked by Carter , another inmate . Jason kills Carter to protect Michael . After this , Dante manages to work out a deal , getting Michael released on parole . Wanting to get `` experience , '' Michael tries to hook up with stripper Abby Haver ( Andrea Bogart ) . He backs out , but he and Abby become friends , and eventually start dating . After saving Abby from an abusive ex-boyfriend , Michael finally admits to his family that he was raped by Carter in prison . With Abby and his family 's help , Michael goes to therapy , and is able to recover , graduating from high school . Michael and Abby both start working at ELQ When a stalker starts beating up Abby 's friends , Michael sends her out of town to keep her safe . Abby has an unfortunate accident , and ends up dying , leaving Michael devastated .