No. in series No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Australian viewers 46 `` Own Worst Enemy '' Kevin Carlin Bevan Lee 8 October 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 08 ) 0.163 ANZAC Day , 1958 . Sarah and Henry clash when an Aboriginal patient named Frank Gibbs brings out the hidden prejudice in society . Elizabeth 's life in the city is turned upside down when Douglas begins coughing up blood . Anna finally accepts her divorce from Gino by refusing to let their story influence her next book . George visits Regina in the mental asylum and is offered a divorce . Leah , a local Jewish teenager , runs away with her non-Jewish boyfriend , Larry . Henry takes his frustration of James ' absence on others . Jack realises that Carolyn is missing life in the city . 47 `` Fallout '' Kevin Carlin Katherine Thomson 15 October 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 15 ) 0.105 Anna decides to move back to Ash Park to write her second novel . George concedes defeat and allows Sarah to bring David up in the Jewish faith . Douglas is diagnosed with lung cancer and decides to have the diseased lung removed . Isaac allows Leah to stay in Inverness while he moves to Israel . Carolyn 's attempts to help Frank cause a rift between the pair . Jack contemplates hitting the bottle after a fight with Carolyn . Henry prepares to perform a double mastectomy on Sheila , a breast cancer patient . Richard urges George to get a divorce . Regina is released from the mental asylum after three months pass . 48 `` All That Glitters '' Mark Joffe John Lonie 22 October 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 22 ) 0.093 Frank politely declines Carolyn 's advances to help him pursue a career in art . Elizabeth worries for Douglas ' health as he seems to forget his pneumonectomy . Prudence returns to Ash Park , having gained her driving licence . George seeks guidance about converting to the Jewish faith . Leah is shocked when Larry gives her a condom as a house - warming present . Anna introduces her family to Ed , her publisher and announces she 's finished her second book , All That Glitters . Jack 's reluctance to change is clocked by Carolyn . Henry and Sarah look after Sheila when she is abused by her husband . Regina returns to Inverness after being released . 49 `` The Edge of Reason '' Mark Joffe David Hannam 29 October 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 29 ) 0.091 Anna decides to reject Ed 's marriage proposal and revert their relationship to one of complete professionalism . Sarah threatens Regina 's life , before agreeing to go to Canberra with George . Carolyn 's rape by Sir Richard Bennett is revealed to George in a letter from Regina . Elizabeth learns that Douglas ' cancer has returned after he begins coughing blood again . Larry and his friends harass Regina by throwing bottles at her house and hanging a baby doll on her verandah . Jack and Douglas propose a programme to Frank to help Aboriginal men who served in the war . Regina informs Sir Richard that she is back in Inverness , as per their plan . 50 5 `` Do Not Go Gently '' Catherine Miller Kristen Dunphy 5 November 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 05 ) 0.088 Frank loses his paintings and his home after sadistic local football coach , Stan O'Rourke burns his house down . Regina attempts to stop George and Sarah walking into Sir Richard 's web in Canberra . Jack and Henry clash over whether to tell Douglas his diagnosis , against Elizabeth 's wishes . After Elizabeth disapproves her novel , Anna attempts to have it edited , but Ed refuses . Elizabeth breaks the news to Douglas that he is dying . In Canberra , the Prime Minister berates George for bringing Sarah and then , Sarah suffers a panic attack when she sees a former guard from Ravensbrück . 51 6 `` Demons of the Dark '' Catherine Millar John Lonie 12 November 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 12 ) 0.110 Douglas researches the feasibility of euthanasia , despite Jack and Henry 's advice . Regina 's warnings fall upon deaf ears , excepts Anna 's . Sir Richard attempts to rape Anna , however she defends herself and he falls down a flight of stairs . Frank , Roy and Jack bond with Larry when they convince him to help rebuild Frank 's house . Sarah confronts the former guard from her concentration camp , and restrains herself instead of killing her . Carolyn reveals the truth about her rape to Anna . Jack threatens Stan O'Rourke . Elizabeth begs God to forgive any sins that Douglas may commit . 52 7 `` The Anatomy of His Passing '' Jeremy Sims David Hannam 19 November 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 19 ) 0.101 One month later , on Victory over Japan Day 1958 , Douglas makes the decision to end his life and much to his chagrin , Elizabeth helps him . Henry launches an investigation into Douglas ' death . Olivia returns from England with news that James has fallen back in love with her brother , William and is staying with him in the French Riviera . George learns that Sir Richard has the ability to seize Ash Park if he so desires . Elizabeth leaves Ash Park for the Swanson house in Sydney . Regina admits to Sarah that she is the person responsible for shooting George all those years ago . Roy learns that Dawn is pregnant . 53 8 `` Cloud Break '' Jeremy Sims Katherine Thomson 26 November 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 26 ) 0.098 Elizabeth 's happiness in the city is soon replaced by shock when she learns that Douglas has named his supposedly deceased son Matthew in his will . Regina continues to string Sir Richard along , this time warning Henry of his capabilities . George questions whether he should sell off some land to repay his debts . Carolyn 's obscure cake is a hit at the hospital fête , with Doris inviting her to join the CWA . Anna and Olivia 's night of fun becomes a learning experience for both of them , as Anna surrounds herself with drugs and Olivia realises it is time to move on . Sarah and George must place their faith in Regina when coming up with an idea to stop Sir Richard once and for all . 54 9 `` All That Lies Ahead '' Mark Joffe Cathryn Strickland 3 December 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 03 ) 0.107 Jack decides to run for parliament as an independent after much consideration . Elizabeth welcomes Matthew into the family , as he asks Olivia to dinner . Sarah questions whether Regina 's motives are genuine . Regina signs the divorce papers . Sir Richard pays Elizabeth a visit , to pay his respects after Douglas ' passing . News of Dawn 's pregnancy begin to spread . Henry and Jack learn that the latter 's medical records have been requested by the Board . Carolyn learns the truth of Jack 's addiction to pills . Three months later , Jack is seen stumbling through a paddock , drunk . 55 10 `` Death Comes as an End '' Mark Joffe Bevan Lee 10 December 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 10 ) 0.122 As the election day nears , Sir Richard begins to question whether a subterfuge is underway . Jack 's chances of winning the election look certain until Sir Richard reveals Jack 's torture in the war to the voters , resulting in him hitting the bottle . Elizabeth opens a Veteran 's fund for Aboriginals who fought in the war . Anna and Henry get engaged to stop Sir Richard ruining his life . George rids himself of his debt after revealing his intent to wed Sarah . Regina 's deception of Sir Richard is revealed in spectacular fashion and the morning of the election , her lifeless body is found in the river . 56 11 `` Lie Deep '' Catherine Millar Katherine Thomson 17 December 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 17 ) 0.100 Jack is found by Roy , intoxicated , still struggling with his public humiliation . After finding Regina 's body , Sarah and Henry perform an autopsy and must inform the Bligh family learn that she was dead before she went into the river . Elizabeth urges George to reconcile with James . Anna and Henry 's drunken night of fun turns passionate when the two have sex . Matthew proposes to Olivia , and she accepts . George loses the election to the Labor candidate . After Valda , the nurse he was blackmailing comes forward to police , Sir Richard is arrested for Regina 's murder . 57 12 `` In Memoriam '' Catherine Millar Bevan Lee 24 December 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 24 ) 0.066 Anna 's world is shattered when Henry refuses to marry her after learning she can not conceive children . Olivia and Matthew prepare to move overseas . Sir Richard is vindicated when Sarah learns that Regina killed herself to frame him and rid him from the lives of the Blighs forever . Elizabeth confronts Sir Richard one final time , armed with the fruit knife she attacked him with and forces him out of their lives . Jack reclaims his dignity after he confronts Stan O'Rourke . Sarah , George and David visit the French Riviera , where George makes amends with James , before heading to Israel .