No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) 25 `` The Kalamazoo '' Colin Bucksey David Hollander July 12 , 2015 ( 2015 - 07 - 12 ) 1.04 Ezra is visited in his hospital bed by sinister Father Thomas Romero . A confused Ezra protests his presence . Romero quizzes Ezra about the buried priest . Deborah ushers the priest away and Ezra demands that Ray is called and warned , Ray does not take these calls , soon afterward , Ezra dies . Ray rescues a client from a potential sex scandal with his usual style and heads to a bar where Abby calls him to tell him of Ezra 's passing . Ray consoles himself with some rough sex with a stranger . Mickey , at his apartment complex , looks after the daughter of call girl Ginger who lives there . Mickey dislikes Ginger 's pimp and after attempting to convince him to change his ways or location resorts to drugging him and tossing him into the pool to drown . Ray meets Andrew Finney in his enormous house . Ray is engaged to recover Finney 's kidnapped son and is provided with ransom money . Ray later meets with the kidnappers and rescues the son , who had originally planned the kidnapping with a friend to get the cash , but the drug dealers they enlisted took over murdering his friend . Finney approves of the outcome and pays Ray . A smartened but broke Bunchy ( Brendan ) Donovan is trying to manage the Gym whilst Terry is in jail . Abby visits for a drink and helps out . Bridget rejects a ride home from school from her drunken mother and complains about this to Coner when at home . Abby stops to rescues a huge dog from the highway and takes it home with her . Romero convinces a police officer to give him a box of evidence relating to the deceased Father Danny . 26 `` Ding '' Ed Bianchi William Wheeler July 19 , 2015 ( 2015 - 07 - 19 ) 1.26 Mickey tries to take over Gary 's girls , gets a loan secured on Daryll 's car , and buys coke for the girls to sell . He takes Audrey to her audition where she is not successful . Ray takes on a job from Paige Finney . He is to find Carl LaFell , the husband of a woman that a football star has been having an affair with and pay him off . She tricks Donovan into bringing Carl to a meeting only to see his wife in flagrante delicto with the quarterback -- whose arm LaFell then breaks . When Ray realises this , he demands a check for the money -- which Malcolm Finney pays out . Finney also offers to buy Ray and his firm , but Donovan says he is not for sale . Ray takes the check to LaFell who says he does n't want it . Ray persists , only to be rewarded with a series of punches . Avi offers Lena a partnership in his new business . When she tells Ray , he says she should take it . When Bridget calls Ray about Abby 's behaviour , he visits briefly . Later , Abby catches Connor watching porn and pleasuring himself . She calls Ray to tell him and invites Ray to dinner . He tentatively accepts but ends up not attending . Bunchy falls for the female member of the Mexican team , training at the gym in a big way . Her outfits and demeanor , especially towards Bunchy , are suggestive of a dominatrix . The group 's manager suggests using the gym as a venue for their show . Father Romero , posing as a member of Bunchy 's support group , joins the gym . Terry is involved in a fight in prison , despite Ray paying a guard to protect him . Terry floors his opponent , but a rematch is arranged where Terry is stabbed with a shank . Terry still prevails , but ends up in solitary . 27 `` Come and Knock on Our Door '' Dan Attias David Hollander July 26 , 2015 ( 2015 - 07 - 26 ) 1.44 A beaten - up Ray returns home in the early morning to surprise Bridget and apologize for missing dinner . While talking , Ray sees the ghost of his dead sister in the room and leaves . This apparition will haunt him throughout the day . Mickey explains his plan to the reluctant girls who agree to try it for one day , but Mickey receives a call from the prison and leaves Daryll to look after business . Daryll is soon overwhelmed with the role but Bunchy arrives and helps out . Ray is visited by Finney 's men who try , but fail , to bring him onto the payroll . Mickey and Ray try different approaches to get Terry out of prison before he is killed by the Aryan gang for killing one of their members in a prison fight . Both try and fail at the prison and Mickey ends up inadvertently killing the judge , who had already turned down cash from Ray . In desperation , Ray turns to Finney , who , in turn , leans on a reluctant Governor Verona , ensuring Terry is released that evening . Ray repays Finney by signing up to work for him . The girls return to a troubled Mickey , who is glum even upon seeing his large cut of the action . Ray calls , saying Terry will be freed . Mickey then cheers up , and claims joint responsibility for the release to Bunchy and Daryll . Ray collects Terry from the prison . 28 `` Breakfast of Champions '' Lesli Linka Glatter Brett Johnson August 2 , 2015 ( 2015 - 08 - 02 ) 1.37 Abby visits her family in Boston , flirting with old flame Gus , in her brother Dave 's bar . Margaret , her sister , and Abby do n't get along . Abby spends most of the day drinking and bonding with Margaret 's daughter , Lauren , and resists Ray 's demand she return home . After a brief war of words the sisters patch things up . Bridget has a bad day at school and tries to get her teacher on - side . Coner skips school and borrows Abby 's car ; some girls ask to come round for the day but Coner ends up disappointed when they all bring their boyfriends . Coner and one of the guys come to blows with Coner eventually beating him with a bat ; Bridget arrives before things get too ugly . Mickey tries to patch things up with Terry , though , as usual , his ways only serve to make things worse . Ray spends the day at Finney 's Imperial Studios . He shepherds Casey around as required and helps Paige overcome some personnel issues so that she can best portray the studio to a potential buyer . Andrew Finney first says the deal is off but after interjections from Paige says it is back on again . Alone , Finney tells Ray that he works only for him -- - and suggests things will get ugly with the rest of the brood . Paige later calls Ray asking to meet , Ray declines , stating that he works only for her father . Going home , Ray gets a frosty reception from Bridget but stays at the family home in Abby 's absence . 29 5 `` Handshake Deal '' Colin Bucksey Gina Welch August 9 , 2015 ( 2015 - 08 - 09 ) 1.32 Mickey sets up a girls and gear party for PJ and his tech company Kwip . All goes well until more product than agreed is consumed , leaving Mickey $10,000 down . One of the girls gets busy with Coner . Ray is tasked by Finney with retrieving a phone which contains damaging evidence of Governor Verona 's dalliances . He enlists Lena to help and brings her back on staff . The phone recovered , Ray discovers that Paige was among Verona 's indiscretions . Bunchy 's heart is broken when Teresa and family leave after Terry spikes the wrestling deal . Romero tries further to befriend Bunchy . Bridget is having trouble with her college application ; Ray 's attending a meeting with her does n't help so she phones her Mom . Abby , who has agreed to buy the bar and put in Margaret 's name , agrees to come home . On hearing from her sister that she needs Ray to agree to the bar deal Margaret becomes angry . Mickey tries to extend his loan with the Armenians and ends up agreeing to give them 50 % of the business . Paige wants the phone but Ray insists his loyalties lie with her father . On meeting Finney he implies that the phone has been destroyed , Finney is displeased but seems content that his daughter does not have it . Ray later meets with Paige and offers the phone for 5 % of the NFL deal , but settles for 3 % . Ray comes home to find Mickey and Coner there , sending Coner to bed ; Ray shares a quick drink with his father . After Mickey leaves Ray watches TV with the dog and then Abby comes home . 30 6 `` Swing Vote '' John Dahl Michael Tolkin August 16 , 2015 ( 2015 - 08 - 16 ) 1.61 The Minassians take Mickey to visit another of their business partners and show him the punishment that awaits if payment is late . He returns to the apartment complex to find Ginger packed and ready to leave as Mrs Rosenblatt has threatened to call child protection about Audrey , Mickey says he will help and she should stay . Abby asks Ray if he wants a divorce , he does n't answer straight away but later calls saying a divorce is not what he wants , he wants to build a better life for them all . Bunchy shares his feelings about losing Teresa with his support group , Romero convinces him they should go and see her in Bakersfield on the trip Romero claims to have stabbed his own abuser in the eyes . Terry receives a weight plate shaped calling card from the Aryans . Ray gets confirmation from Lee Drexler that his contract with Paige is good and signs it . He is then called in by Finney to help delay a potential bidder for the NFL team , so that he misses the deadline . He despatches Lena to intercept this Mr Sylvester , whom they drug and deposit in a motel room . Paige gets the deal signed , though has to agree to a 10 % break fee . Bunchy visits Teresa and asks her to marry him , despite her protestations he says he will wait at a diner down the street until she changes her mind . At the diner , Romero tricks Bunchy into saying how his abuser was despatched . Teresa does arrive and agrees to go with Bunchy -- but only if he agrees to : tell the truth , be faithful , not hit her and drop the name Bunchy , Brendan agrees . At the election party Abby is introduced to Verona and the Finney clan . Ray leaves for a while to attend to a petrified Terry . On returning , with Verona losing the election and having found out about the deal with Paige , Finney expresses his disappointment at Ray . 31 7 `` All Must Be Loved '' Tucker Gates David Hollander August 23 , 2015 ( 2015 - 08 - 23 ) 1.37 Terry 's specialist advises him that recent events are normal for Parkinson 's and he should really have in - home support , Ray agrees with Abby that he could move in with them , Terry later declines . Darryl is beaten and his car is taken by the Armenians who had come after a $30 k payment , Mickey says he will sort it out and arranges to meet them with the money . Bunchy tells his family of his intention to marry Teresa and asks Ray for his settlement money . Ray OK 's the financing for Abby 's father 's bar . Paige tells Donovan she is divorcing Varick and fronts Ray $200 k to bribe Helen Miller of Fish & Game . Romero calls Ray and asks for a meet , saying he knows about Father O'Connor's murder . At the meeting he offers forgiveness if Ray confesses , Ray starts to confess then leaves -- Romero follows but Ray turns on the priest and beats him until Terry pulls him off -- Romero excommunicates them but calls for Ray to repent . Bunchy goes to Mickey looking for more work , Mickey takes him to the meeting with the Armenians , who , on discovering Mickey has given them play money lay in to Mickey and Darryl outnumbering and overwhelming them until Bunchy steps in -- Darryl later tells Mickey that reprisals are a certainty . Bridget 's crush on her tutor , Greg Donellen , moves to the next level . Paige summons Ray on the pretext of business , but on arriving her motives are clearly more about pleasure . 32 8 `` Tulip '' Michael Uppendahl David Hollander & William Wheeler August 30 , 2015 ( 2015 - 08 - 30 ) 1.44 Paige tells Ray , her overnight guest , that they must seal the deal with Napier that week to keep everything on track . Ray enlists Helen Miller to provide some evidence ( snakes which have been used to traffic drugs ) which will be planted on Miller . Despite good planning by Ray and Lena , one of the snakes bites Miller , thwarting their plans . Romero shows up at the gym and has Bunchy summon Ray . Armed and ready to dispose of another priest , Ray is surprised when Romero simply hands him all of the evidence that he has gathered and leaves . The Armenians take revenge by torching Daryll 's car . The investigating police officer tells Mickey that she is aware of his activities and that he can either become an informant again or he , Darryl and Bunchy will likely face jail . Mickey later calls her and agrees . A disgruntled Varick is denied access to Finney so sneaks in through a back door . He threatens to expose his relationship with Finney who responds by hitting him , fatally , with a fire poker . Finney calls in Ray who , in turn , brings Avi back to help clean up with Lena . Burning and burying Varick 's body ( along with Romero 's evidence ) in a deep desert grave , Avi tries to convince Ray that Kate 's murder was for Ray 's good . Finney , as agreed with Ray , tells Paige he will pay Napier 's price for the land and that she can take control of the deal going forward . Avi lays a false trail suggesting Varick fled south of the border . Bridget visits Donellen at home . He is on painkillers , and after he falls asleep on the couch Bridget snuggles up alongside him . Abby gets Terry cleaned up somewhat and he ends up staying in the room that Abby had prepared for him . 33 9 `` The Octopus '' Colin Bucksey Brett Johnson September 6 , 2015 ( 2015 - 09 - 06 ) 1.41 Mickey is required by Detective Muncie to work with them on a sting operation against the Minassians and their Russian supplier of trafficked girls , Ivan Belikov . Preparations for Bunchy 's wedding are underway but at the rehearsal dinner Ray gives less a best man 's speech , more a mumbled couple of sentences . Ray has Lena check out Teresa and family , who are mostly clean . Terry 's Parkinson 's ( or meds ) give him nightmares and when checking out the noise Abby and Ray find a shaken and embarrassed Terry has wet the bed . The NFL is checking the Finneys ' deal and the absence of Varick leads them to have one of their investigators , disgraced former FBI director Ed Cochran , look into the deal . Cochran seems to relish the prospect of encountering Ray again . Mickey hides out in a motel . Muncie goes looking for him and arrests groom - to - be Bunchy when Mickey can not be located . Ray agrees with Muncie to swap father for brother , then tracks down Mickey and convinces him to return . Mickey meets with the Minassians and sees the pictures of the sex - slaves that Belikov is controlling ; he is shaken by these . Bridget is out bowling with Donellen who admits his feelings for her . Bunchy and Teresa are married and the reception is a success with Ray delivering a fine and moving speech . Mickey asks Ray for help with his situation . Ray asks Lena to look into the Minassians . 34 10 `` One Night in Yerevan '' Dan Attias Gina Welch & David Hollander September 13 , 2015 ( 2015 - 09 - 13 ) 1.43 Ray is planning to get Mickey out of his sticky situation with the cops by working with old employer Lee Drexler . Ray gets Lee to act as a legal representative for Mickey . Their angle is to say that Mickey is senile , which is signed off on by a doctor whom they pay , and then appoint Ray as his guardian . That means that Mickey ca n't rightfully participate in Muncie 's sting . Ray also tries to convince the Minassians to let Mickey out of the deal they made , and asks for help from an Armenian pop star whom Ray had helped out in the past . Meanwhile , Cochran is gathering more evidence in his investigation of Ray , using the vetting of the Finney NFL deal as a reason to dig into any potential dirty business . Cochran is getting closer to learning the truth . He meets with Finney , gets a sense of where he stands , and also bribes his way into Avi 's storage locker . Worried about Bridget , Abby searches her room for something that will help her figure out what 's wrong . She finds Mr. Donellen 's pill bottle and confronts Bridget about it . When Abby learns the truth , she first threatens to call the cops . Donellen lies to Abby telling her that Bridget is obsessed with him because they both lost loved ones . 35 11 `` Poker '' Colin Bucksey Michael Tolkin & Brett Johnson September 20 , 2015 ( 2015 - 09 - 20 ) 1.45 Cochran sends the LAPD , via their website , a map of where Varick 's body is buried , his screen observed remotely by Avi and Lena . He then plants the poker at Ray 's apartment and has Finney tell the police chief that it was Ray who killed Varick . Finney asks Paige to back him up . Avi calls Ray and they agree the body should be moved . Ray answers some of a detective 's questions about Varick , but Lee Drexler arrives and concludes the conversation . Lee tells Ray that Finney had implicated him ; Ray sees Finney 's lawyer and tells him to have Finney recant his statement . Cochran arrives home to find Ray there , Ray asks where the poker is , but it takes a bullet to the leg and some persuasion to get the location . Ray recovers the poker just before the police arrive -- Lena speeds it away . Bridget , though grounded , visits Donellen and tells him how she feels but he gently rebuffs her . Abby arrives and takes Bridget away . Terry makes a pass at Abby . Ray intercepts Paige on her way into the LAPD offices and he tries to convince her to tell the truth . She tells the police that Finney killed Varick and that they were lovers . Ray and his team deposit the body and poker in a dumpster at Finney 's home . Paige tells Finney she made her statement , but not its contents , and Lena torches the body . Ray and his team return a bruised Cochran to Dybek . Mickey avoids having to move to Reno by convincing his boys he has Alzheimer 's , and claims that he is scared that Ray will lock him away somewhere . Ray confronts Mickey , and Mickey tells Ray they will all hate him if he is sent away , forcing Ray to relent . 36 12 `` Exsuscito '' David Hollander David Hollander & William Wheeler September 27 , 2015 ( 2015 - 09 - 27 ) 1.50 TV news covers unfolding events at the Finney house , Paige arrives at Ray 's apartment to ride out the media storm . Ray leaves and goes home . Bridget is in Santa Monica and arranges a liaison with Greg Donellen . Teresa wakes Bunchy and rides him before she takes him to the hills and tells him she is pregnant , Bunchy reacts badly and admits he is worried about how good a parent he would be and does n't want to disappoint her . Abby searches for Bridget , hammering on Donellen 's door getting no response . Meanwhile Ray arrives home where Terry , reluctantly , tells him about Donellen . Ray calls Bridget , who does not answer , when Abby texts asking where she is she says at Mickey 's . Terry agrees to collect her ; Abby tells Ray who agrees to meet there . Ray is second to arrive but sees two of the Armenians armed for revenge , he gets a gun and finds the Armenians shooting out Mickey 's apartment , Ray shoots at them but they leave quickly . Michelle is killed and Terry is badly hurt . Ray and Mickey rush Terry to the hospital . Avi advises that the Minassians will kill all of Ray 's family , so Ray and Avi plan to eliminate them . Waiting as Minassians arrive at their club they are surprised to see Mickey arrive and gun down the doorman before entering the building . They follow and between them dispatch the Armenian men , though Ray is wounded . Mickey slits the throat of Ovsanna Minassian . Ray next goes to rescue Bridget . Donellen has declined Bridget 's advances but this does n't stop Ray from punching him a few times hard . He takes Bridget with him to the hospital where Terry is . She says Ray does n't love her or anyone , and leaves . She goes home and packs her bags . Terry is in a bad way , wounded and weakened . Ray goes to see Romero so he will visit Terry . Romero awaits his confession , Terry 's heart arrests . Ray confesses and tells of Father O'Connor's misdeeds against him ; Terry regains consciousness . Leaving the confessional Ray collapses . Romero drives him back towards L.A.