On May 13 , 2005 , New Line first exercised their rights to use the Friday the 13th moniker when they , along with Avatar comics , released a special issue of Friday the 13th . Written by Brian Pulido and illustrated by Mike Wolfer and Greg Waller , the story takes place after the events of Freddy vs. Jason , where siblings Miles and Laura Upland inherit Camp Crystal Lake . Knowing that Jason caused the recent destruction , Laura , unknown to her brother , sets out to kill Jason with a paramilitary group so that she and her brother can sell the property . The issue pre ‐ sold more than 17,500 copies . Avatar released a three - issue miniseries titled Friday the 13th : Bloodbath in September 2005 . The series was written by Brian Pulido , illustrated by Mike Wolfer and Andrew Dalhouse , and revolves around a group of teenagers who come to Camp Tomorrow , a camp that sits on Crystal Lake , for work and a `` party - filled weekend '' . The teenagers begin to discover that they share common family backgrounds and soon awaken Jason , who proceeds to kill them . Brian Pulido returned for a third time in October 2005 to write another special issue for Avatar , titled Jason X . Picking up after the events of the Jason X film , Jason is now on Earth 2 where a bioengineer , Kristen , attempts to subdue him in hopes that she can use his regenerative tissue to save her own life and the lives of those she loves . In February 2006 , Avatar published their final Friday the 13th comic , a two - issue miniseries titled Friday the 13th : Jason vs. Jason X . The series was written and illustrated by Mike Wolfer . The story takes place after the events of the film Jason X , where a salvage team discovers the spaceship Grendel and awakens a regenerated Jason Voorhees . The `` original '' Jason and Über - Jason , a version of Jason with mechanical limbs , are drawn into a battle to the death . In June 2006 , a one - shot comic titled Friday the 13th : Fearbook was released , written by Mike Wolfer with art by Sebastian Fiumara . In the comic , Jason is captured and experimented upon by the Trent Organization . Jason escapes and seeks out Violet , the survivor of Friday the 13th : Bloodbath , whom the Trent Organization is holding in their Crystal Lake headquarters .