Paul Guilfoyle as Henry Rindell , Maia 's father , who is a wildly successful financial advisor , phenomenally wealthy and universally loved . He , Lenore , and Maia are the unofficial First Family of Chicago . He is arrested for running a giant Ponzi scheme with Diane as one of his victims . Bernadette Peters as Lenore Rindell , Maia 's mother who comes from a tough working - class background and is a natively brilliant financial whiz . She , Henry , and Maia are the unofficial First Family of Chicago . Gary Cole as Kurt McVeigh , Diane Lockhart 's estranged husband . Zach Grenier as David Lee , a name partner at Diane Lockhart 's former law firm . Jerry Adler as Howard Lyman , a geriatric partner at Diane Lockhart 's former firm , and now judge , who shows chauvinistic and stereotyping tendencies . Carrie Preston as Elsbeth Tascioni , a quirky yet smart lawyer . Heléne Yorke as Amy Breslin , an assistant state attorney and Maia 's girlfriend . Chalia La Tour as Yesha Mancini , an attorney who represented Maia in her legal issues stemming from her father 's arrest . Matthew Perry as Mike Kresteva , a lawyer who , after losing the 2012 Illinois gubernatorial election to Peter Florrick , now works for the US Department of Justice , in charge of an investigation encompassing Diane Lockhart and senior staff at Reddick , Boseman & Lockhart . Christine Lahti as Andrea Stevens , a high - powered lawyer from Los Angeles who often appears opposite Reddick , Boseman in cases involving film and television Andrea Martin as Francesca Lovatelli , Colin Morello 's mother and a controlling influence in his bid to join Congress Margo Martindale as Ruth Eastman , consultant for the Democratic National Committee Tim Matheson as Tully , a left - wing protester who has a sexual relationship with Diane Alan Alda as Solomon Waltzer , a renowned lawyer at a national firm who uses dishonest tactics to achieve his aims Rob McClure as Judge Trig Mullaney , an unintelligent recent Trump appointee to the judiciary with very little understanding of the law