April 15 -- 16 : Kentucky and North Carolina immediately refuse to provide troops in response to Lincoln 's call . Tension and anger increase in the border states of Missouri , Kentucky , Maryland , Virginia , and North Carolina . North Carolina troops seize Fort Caswell and Fort Johnston . On April 16 , Virginia refuses to provide militia to suppress the rebellion . On April 17 , Missouri and Tennessee also refuse to meet the President 's request for volunteers . April 17 , 19 , May 7 , 23 : On April 17 , a Virginia Convention votes for secession and provides for a referendum on May 23 , although the secession issue was already effectively decided by the convention and subsequent state actions . Strong pro-Union sentiment remains in the western counties of the state . On April 19 , the Virginia General Assembly passes an ordinance of session , schedules a vote for May 23 . On May 7 , before the vote of the people , Virginia joins the Confederacy and Virginia troops become Confederate troops . They occupy Arlington Heights , Virginia and the Custis - Lee plantation home of Robert E. Lee . On May 23 , Virginia citizens approve secession . In western Virginia , which would become West Virginia in 1863 , the vote was overwhelmingly against secession . April 18 : Five companies of Pennsylvania volunteers arrive in Washington , becoming the first troops to respond to President Lincoln 's call for volunteers . April 18 -- 19 : Federal troops are only partially successful in destroying the armory and arsenal at Harpers Ferry , Virginia , which , along with valuable machinery , are seized by Confederate troops as the Federals flee . April 19 , 27 : President Lincoln declares a blockade of the Confederate States . Baltimore riots as Union troops , the 6th Massachusetts Militia , pass through on their way to Washington , D.C. On April 27 , Lincoln adds Virginia and North Carolina ports to the blockade . April 20 : Federal forces abandon and attempt to destroy the Gosport Navy Yard near Norfolk , Virginia as well as five vessels with no crews present but Confederates save much equipment , material , artillery , and parts of four ships , including U.S.S. Merrimack , as the Federals flee . April 25 : The 7th New York Volunteer Infantry Regiment arrives in Washington , D.C. April 29 : The Maryland House of Delegates votes against secession 53 to 13 . May 1 , 6 , 16 : On May 1 , the Tennessee legislature authorizes the governor to appoint commissioners to enter an alliance with the Confederacy . On May 6 , the Tennessee legislature votes for secession and to submit the question to a vote on June 8 . Before the vote is even taken , on May 16 , Tennessee is admitted to the Confederacy . May 1 , 17 , 20 : The North Carolina legislature votes in favor of a state convention to consider the issue of secession . North Carolina is admitted to the Confederacy on May 17 , even before May 20 when the North Carolina convention votes for secession . The North Carolina delegates decide not to submit the question to a vote of the people . May 6 : The Confederate Congress recognizes that a state of war exists between the Confederate States of America and the United States of America . Britain recognizes the Confederate States as belligerents but not as a nation . On May 13 , Queen Victoria announces Britain 's position . May 6 , 18 : The Arkansas legislature votes to secede . On May 18 , Arkansas is admitted to the Confederacy . May 16 , 20 , September 3 , 11 , November 18 : On May 16 , a Kentucky legislative committee recommends the state remain neutral . On May 20 , Governor Beriah Magoffin of Kentucky declares Kentucky to be neutral and forbids both movement of troops of either side on its soil and hostile demonstrations by Kentucky citizens . Kentucky effectively sides with the Union in September . On September 11 , the Kentucky legislature called for Confederate troops , which had entered the state on September 3 , to leave but did not ask that Union forces leave . Rather they asked the Union forces to drive out the Confederates . On November 18 , Confederate Army soldiers in Kentucky adopt an ordinance of secession and create a Confederate government for the divided state . Officially , Kentucky remains in the Union and a majority support and fight for the Union . June 8 : Tennessee votes for secession by 69 % yes , 31 % no ; a majority in eastern Tennessee vote for Union .