Though the idea is controversial , some evidence suggests a link between aging and mitochondrial genome dysfunction . In essence , mutations in mtDNA upset a careful balance of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production and enzymatic ROS scavenging ( by enzymes like superoxide dismutase , catalase , glutathione peroxidase and others ) . However , some mutations that increase ROS production ( e.g. , by reducing antioxidant defenses ) in worms increase , rather than decrease , their longevity . Also , naked mole rats , rodents about the size of mice , live about eight times longer than mice despite having reduced , compared to mice , antioxidant defenses and increased oxidative damage to biomolecules . Once , there was thought to be a positive feedback loop at work ( a ' Vicious Cycle ' ) ; as mitochondrial DNA accumulates genetic damage caused by free radicals , the mitochondria lose function and leak free radicals into the cytosol . A decrease in mitochondrial function reduces overall metabolic efficiency . However , this concept was conclusively disproved when it was demonstrated that mice , which were genetically altered to accumulate mtDNA mutations at accelerated rate do age prematurely , but their tissues do not produce more ROS as predicted by the ' Vicious Cycle ' hypothesis . Supporting a link between longevity and mitochondrial DNA , some studies have found correlations between biochemical properties of the mitochondrial DNA and the longevity of species . Extensive research is being conducted to further investigate this link and methods to combat aging . Presently , gene therapy and nutraceutical supplementation are popular areas of ongoing research . Bjelakovic et al. analyzed the results of 78 studies between 1977 and 2012 , involving a total of 296,707 participants , and concluded that antioxidant supplements do not reduce all - cause mortality nor extend lifespan , while some of them , such as beta carotene , vitamin E , and higher doses of vitamin A , may actually increase mortality .