Having escaped the pawn shop , Eph , Setrakian and Fet regroup . They deduce that the Master needs his damaged coffin repaired and is nesting nearby . Eph and Fet set out a recon mission leading them to Gabriel Bolivar 's renovated theater . Using his exterminator skills and historical knowledge of the area , Fet infiltrates the theater through an underground passage connected by the rain sewers to a nearby building . Inside they discover the Master 's coffin and surmise he is close by . Before retreating , Fet removes a street manhole cover , flooding the sewer with sunlight to block any strigoi passing through . Meanwhile , Palmer is angry that the Master only restored his health rather than bestowing immortality . Eichhorst assures Palmer he will be rewarded once he completes the Master 's work . Fitzwilliam , convinced Palmer has gone too far , leaves his boss ' employ . Later , Palmer and Eichhorst confront Secretary of Health and Human Services Margaret Pierson and CDC Director Everett Barnes , who plan to quarantine the entire city . Palmer tosses Pierson over a balcony , making it look like suicide , then he and Eichhorst coerce Barnes into joining them . Elsewhere , Eph , Fet , Setrakian , Nora , and Dutch Velders prepare to attack the theater . Nora suggests bringing Zach when Eph is reluctant to leave him behind , unprotected from Kelly . In the tunnels beneath the theater , Fet dynamites a mob of strigoi . The group enter the theater and fight more strigoi , including Bolivar and Eichhorst . Upstairs , Setrakian and Eph confront the Master and drive him into daylight where he is severely burned , but escapes . Eichhorst , wounded , also escapes , along with Bolivar and other strigoi . Setrakian and the others are stunned that sunlight failed to kill the Master . As they retreat , Zach feigns an asthma attack to trick them into stopping at Kelly 's house for his medication . Zach instead retrieves a family photo album . Kelly , now a fully turned strigoi , appears , calling Zach . Eph restrains him while shooting at Kelly , wounding her before she escapes . Setrakian warns Eph that the Master will use Kelly to track the group . Meanwhile , Vaun tells Gus that the Master is one of an ancient group of strigoi who has broken a truce amongst them . Needing a human to help slay the Master , the Ancients recruit Gus , who wants to avenge his family .