Adults are near the top of a food chain and are rarely preyed on . However , individuals are known to have been taken by jaguars and the much smaller ocelot Its main prey are tree - dwelling mammals and a majority of the diet has been shown to focus on sloths and monkeys . Research conducted by Aguiar - Silva between 2003 and 2005 in a nesting site in Parintins , Amazonas , Brazil , collected remains from prey offered to the nestling by its parents and after sorting them , concluded , in terms of individuals preyed upon , the harpy 's prey basis was composed in 79 % by sloths from two species : Bradypus variegatus amounting to 39 % of the individual prey base , and Choloepus didactylus to 40 % ; various monkeys amounted to 11.6 % of the same prey base . In a similar research venture in Panama , where a couple of captive - bred subadults was released , 52 % of the male 's captures and 54 % of the female 's were of two sloth species ( Bradypus variegatus and Choloepus hoffmanni ) . At one Venezuelan nest , the remains comprised sloths . Monkeys regularly taken can include capuchin monkeys , saki monkeys , howler monkeys , titi monkeys , squirrel monkeys , and spider monkeys . Smaller monkeys , such as tamarins and marmosets , are seemingly ignored as prey by this species . At several nest in Guyana , monkeys made up about 37 % of the prey remains found at the nests . Similarly , cebid monkeys made up 35 % of the remains found at 10 nests in Amazonian Ecuador . Other partially arboreal and even land mammals are also preyed on given the opportunity , including porcupines , squirrels , opossums , anteaters , armadillos , and even relatively large carnivores such as kinkajous , coatis , and tayras . In the Pantanal , a pair of nesting eagles preyed largely on the porcupine ( Coendou prehensilis ) and the agouti ( Dasyprocta azarae ) . The eagle may also attack bird species such as macaws : At the Parintins research site , the red - and - green macaw made up for 0.4 % of the prey base , with other birds amounting to 4.6 % . '' Other parrots have also been preyed on , as well as cracids such as curassows and other birds like seriemas . Additional prey items reported include reptiles such as iguanas , tejus , and snakes .