Bone and joint . Old bones are marked by `` thinning and shrinkage . '' This might result in a loss of height ( about two inches ( 5 cm ) by age 80 ) , a stooping posture in many people , and a greater susceptibility to bone and joint diseases such as osteoarthritis and osteoporosis . Chronic diseases . Some older persons have at least one chronic condition and many have multiple conditions . In 2007 -- 2009 , the most frequently occurring conditions among older persons in the United States were uncontrolled hypertension ( 34 % ) , diagnosed arthritis ( 50 % ) , and heart disease ( 32 % ) . Chronic mucus hypersecretion ( CMH ) `` defined as coughing and bringing up sputum ... is a common respiratory symptom in elderly persons . '' Dental problems . May have less saliva and less ability for oral hygiene in old age which increases the chance of tooth decay and infection . Digestive system . About 40 % of the time , old age is marked by digestive disorders such as difficulty in swallowing , inability to eat enough and to absorb nutrition , constipation and bleeding . Essential Tremor ( ET ) is an uncontrollable shaking in a part of the upper body . It is more common in the elderly and symptoms worsen with age . Eyesight . Presbyopia can occur by age 50 and it hinders reading especially of small print in low lighting . Speed with which an individual reads and the ability to locate objects may also be impaired . By age 80 , more than half of all Americans either have a cataract or have had cataract surgery . Falls . Old age spells risk for injury from falls that might not cause injury to a younger person . Every year , about one - third of those 65 years old and over half of those 80 years old fall . Falls are the leading cause of injury and death for old people . Gait change . Some aspects of gait normally change with old age . Gait velocity slows after age 70 . Double stance time ( i.e. , time with both feet on the ground ) also increases with age . Because of gait change , old people sometimes appear to be walking on ice . Hair usually becomes grayer and also might become thinner . As a rule of thumb , around age 50 , about 50 % of Europeans have 50 % grey hair . Many men are affected by balding , and women enter menopause . Hearing . By age 75 and older , 48 % of men and 37 % of women encounter impairments in hearing . Of the 26.7 million people over age 50 with a hearing impairment , only one in seven uses a hearing aid . In the 70 -- 79 age range , the incidence of partial hearing loss affecting communication rises to 65 % , predominantly among low - income males . Hearts can become less efficient in old age with a resulting loss of stamina . In addition , atherosclerosis can constrict blood flow . Immune function . Less efficient immune function ( Immunosenescence ) is a mark of old age . Lungs might expand less well ; thus , they provide less oxygen . Mobility impairment or loss . `` Impairment in mobility affects 14 % of those between 65 and 74 , but half of those over 85 . '' Loss of mobility is common in old people . This inability to get around has serious `` social , psychological , and physical consequences '' . Pain afflicts old people at least 25 % of the time , increasing with age up to 80 % for those in nursing homes . Most pains are rheumatological or malignant . Sexuality remains important throughout the lifespan and the sexual expression of `` typical , healthy older persons is a relatively neglected topic of research '' . Sexual attitudes and identity are established in early adulthood and change minimally over the course of a lifetime . However , sexual drive in both men and women may decrease as they age . That said , there is a growing body of research on people 's sexual behaviours and desires in later life that challenges the `` asexual '' image of older adults . People aged 75 -- 102 continue to experience sensuality and sexual pleasure . Other known sexual behaviours in older age groups include sexual thoughts , fantasies and erotic dreams , masturbation , oral sex , vaginal and anal intercourse . Skin loses elasticity , becomes drier , and more lined and wrinkled . Sleep trouble holds a chronic prevalence of over 50 % in old age and results in daytime sleepiness . In a study of 9,000 persons with a mean age of 74 , only 12 % reported no sleep complaints . By age 65 , deep sleep goes down to about 5 % . Taste buds diminish so that by age 80 taste buds are down to 50 % of normal . Food becomes less appealing and nutrition can suffer . Over the age of 85 , thirst perception decreases , such that 41 % of the elderly drink insufficiently . Urinary incontinence is often found in old age . Voice . In old age , vocal cords weaken and vibrate more slowly . This results in a weakened , breathy voice that is sometimes called an `` old person 's voice . ''