No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) `` Pilot '' Peter Berg Stephen Levinson June 21 , 2015 ( 2015 - 06 - 21 ) 2.16 Former Miami Dolphins stand - out Spencer Strasmore and his friend Charles Greane must cope with the realities of life after football . Spencer starts working for a financial advisor , helping sign and mentor his younger friends still in the NFL , while Charles gets a job at a car dealership . Meanwhile , a mistake may cost Green Bay Packers wide receiver Ricky Jerret his roster spot when he 's involved in an altercation at a nightclub . `` Raise Up '' Julian Farino Evan Reilly June 28 , 2015 ( 2015 - 06 - 28 ) 1.85 Spencer struggles to sign Vernon Littlefield as a client when he clashes with his childhood friend Reggie who handles all his money . Meanwhile , Jason works to renegotiate a contract extension for Vernon with the Dallas Cowboys , but has difficulties . During practice with his new Dolphins team , Ricky discovers that a teammate is not only unfriendly with him but is wearing his number . Now a struggling car salesman , Charles begins to wonder if he retired too early . `` Move the Chains '' Julian Farino Evan Reilly July 5 , 2015 ( 2015 - 07 - 05 ) 1.70 Spencer and Joe ask their boss , Mr. Anderson for permission to use his yacht to host a corporate event to entice potential clients . After a locker room prank goes too far , Ricky discovers the real reason his teammate , Alonzo , has it out for him . Charles grows bored with retirement and remembers his gridiron glory days . Meanwhile at the party , Spencer and Reggie 's rivalry reaches a boiling point when he tries to ruin his hospitality by insulting Spencer 's upbringing of being adopted . `` Heads Will Roll '' Julian Farino Rob Weiss July 12 , 2015 ( 2015 - 07 - 12 ) 1.59 In the aftermath of the corporate party , Joe struggles with a hangover and attempting to woo new clients on Mr. Anderson 's yacht . Spencer is pressured to see a neurologist regarding his recurrent episodes from a TBI , while handling the conflict Reggie generates around Vernon 's contract negotiations . Jason 's dealings with the Dallas Cowboys bring in impressive figures that are n't enough for Reggie , and Vernon 's inflated ego , and this puts Spencer on the line with their business and personal relationships . Also , Charles is bombarded by constant `` sexting '' from a woman he does n't remember from the party . 5 5 `` Machete Charge '' Seith Mann Steve Sharlet July 19 , 2015 ( 2015 - 07 - 19 ) 1.64 Spencer begrudgingly comes to Vernon 's aid when he is targeted by a woman looking to blackmail him with some incriminating photos during the corporate event . However , her lawyer Maximo Gomez tells Joe his client wants a half million dollar pay - off . Meanwhile , Charles ' marriage is on the rocks after Julie finds a picture of a nude woman on his cell phone , which he emailed to himself . On the advice of Annabella , Ricky tries to find common ground with Alonzo by taking him and his brothers to a strip club -- his treat . But their spending gets out of hand and he comes up with a crazy plan to put a stop to it . 6 6 `` Everything Is Everything '' John Fortenberry Evan Reilly July 26 , 2015 ( 2015 - 07 - 26 ) 1.81 Dealing with his own mental and financial problems , Spencer tries to balance Vernon and Ricky 's issues , while Charles goes to Ricky 's `` funhouse '' to escape the stress of his marriage . In order to drive Maximo 's client , Angela Lee 's price down , Joe negotiates with him on common ground at a horseracing track . Also , Ricky bears it all about the story behind his jersey number and his non-existent father during an interview with TV host Jay Glazer . Later , Spencer finally gives in to Tracy 's concerns and gets an MRI . 7 7 `` Ends '' Simon Cellan Jones Rob Weiss August 2 , 2015 ( 2015 - 08 - 02 ) 1.56 Spencer decides to take the hit for Vernon by offering up his own money to pay off Angela Lee into not releasing the photos . But when he and Joe meet Maximo to hand him the money , there 's a catch . Life without Annabella is hard on Ricky , who flies off the handle in public again . Jason meets his mother 's new young golfer boyfriend and thinks he is scamming her in order to represent him as his agent . Later , Spencer and Charles say goodbye to Rodney and spread his ashes onto his high school 's football field . 8 8 `` Gaslighting '' Simon Cellan Jones Evan Reilly August 9 , 2015 ( 2015 - 08 - 09 ) 1.71 Spencer must face up to his past with Angela Lee in order to save Vernon 's future , and agrees to meet with her . Seeing the error of his promiscuous ways , Ricky tries to win back Bella , thinking a $400,000 `` I 'm sorry '' ring will do it . Meanwhile , Charles puts his football skills to work at the car dealership when co-workers and customers bet he ca n't move an SUV in neutral . Also , Mr. Anderson gets a hold of the corporate event video and suspends Joe , who makes a permanent commitment to start his own financial firm . 9 9 `` Head - On '' Julian Farino Steve Sharlet August 16 , 2015 ( 2015 - 08 - 16 ) 1.57 As Vernon 's scandal gets cleared up , he learns about a negative incident involving Reggie . Joe reaches out to Mr. Anderson in vain and thinks he and Spencer should walk out on him . Spencer wrecks his car to try to make amends with a former player from his past . Ricky has a motivational video made for Charles , causing him to get back into football . 10 10 `` Flamingos '' Julian Farino Stephen Levinson & Evan Reilly August 23 , 2015 ( 2015 - 08 - 23 ) 1.40 Spencer walks into his office finding his co-workers swarming , Joe 's office destroyed ( by Joe himself ) , and his office emptied . Spencer then is introduced to his new and considerably better office by Mr. Anderson . Mr. Anderson offers Spencer the lead role in the office 's sports division , which has received a hefty 5 million dollar upgrade . Spencer feels odd because he does n't want to turn on Joe but is given no choice but to accept . Vernon turns down the offer to his mega deal . Ricky 's father approaches Ricky at camp . Spencer talks to Joe about Mr. Anderson firing Joe , and about running a company with him . Charles prepares for the new baby and gets called saying he will be a member of the Dolphins this season . Ricky talks to his father about life . Vernon is found by Spencer and Jason taking pictures of Flamingos where they talk about the deal Vernon did not want , but now gets excited about it and Spencer feels it 's done . Spencer talks to Mr. Anderson about firing Joe . Charles witnesses the Dolphins camp entrance and gets sick . Ricky enters extravagantly . Spencer meets Joe in Coral Gables . Joe introduces Spencer many ideas of a new company involving the two . Spencer tells Joe he ca n't do it . Charles and Ricky enter camp as good teammates but are still unproven . Spencer tells Mr. Anderson he ca n't work with him without Joe . Spencer tells Joe about the meeting , Joe joins in with Spencer . Reggie apologizes to Spencer . Spencer , Joe , Vernon , Reggie , and Jason celebrate Vernon 's contract .