Court of Owls -- A secret society that existed in Gotham for centuries , formed by members of Gotham 's wealthiest families , and the main antagonists of season 3 . They are with connections to Indian Hill with plans to `` save '' Gotham City from its corruption . They have been known to tell specific people like Carmine Falcone and Aubrey James what to do . Before they planning to release Tetch - Virus and wipe out Gotham 's crimes once again , all members of the court has been executed by Talons on Shaman 's order , as punishment for murdering Thomas and Martha Wayne without his permission , leaving the court officially defunct . Kathryn Monroe ( portrayed by Kit Flanagan in Season Two , Leslie Hendrix in Season Three ) -- A white - haired spokeswoman of the Court of Owls , a high - ranking member that Hugo Strange and Ethel Peabody answer to . When she has Talon bring Bruce to her , Bruce recognizes her as someone he 's seen at the Wayne Enterprises parties . Due to a deal Bruce reluctantly had to agree to where he would n't do any more investigating . Kathryn has the Court operative return Bruce to Wayne Manor while stating that he wo n't see her again . Kathryn and Talon later encountered Subject 514A stating that she is one of his `` parents '' and has him loaded into her car . After being apprehended by the Gotham City Police Department , Kathryn tries to get Nathaniel Barnes to stop his rampage there and retreat only for her to be beheaded by Barnes . Frank Gordon ( portrayed by James Remar ) -- The estranged uncle of Jim Gordon and brother of Peter Gordon who returns to the city after Peter died 25 years ago . He is a member of the Court of Owls where he possesses the same ring as Peter did . After Jim managed to stop the chaos caused by Jerome Valeska 's resurrection Frank appears at Jim 's apartment for the first time in years . After Jim learns about his uncle 's involvement with his father 's death and that the Court of Owls has a weapon from Indian Hill held at Dock 9C that they planned to use on Gotham City , Frank tells Jim to play along with Kathryn and then commits suicide by shooting himself in the head . The Talons ( Various Actors ) -- A group of masked deadly assassins that loyal to the Court of Owls . They are all well - trained , following every commands , and willing to sacrifice their life to protect the court .