After being seated , shoulder restraints come down onto the guests ' shoulders ( to not confuse the prisoner 's DNA with the guests ' ) and the prisoner is then beamed into the chamber via a large plume of smoke and is revealed to be Stitch ( Chris Sanders ) . After a brief period of puzzled talking by Gantu and his two assistants , Stitch uses the flaws of the armed laser cannons ( the cannons follow and destroy any genetic material , including saliva ) and disables all power to escape , causing mass chaos in the crowd . During this period , hydraulic pumps and small hoses in the shoulder restraints make it seem as if Stitch is jumping on guests ' shoulders and tickling their heads . Also , Stitch devours a chili cheese dog and burps - accompanied by a foul smell effect being released into the chamber - and destroys a cell phone , once again reminding the guests of the rules about eating or drinking in the theater or the use of electronic devices in the theater . When the power comes back on , the laser cannons continue their attempt to bring Stitch down . Again using the cannons ' fatal flaws , he manages to fire the laser cannons into the crowd . Shortly after using the diversion , he escapes to the Walt Disney World Resort in Florida ( pronounced by the characters as Flor - ee - da ) . Cameras capture him going into Cinderella Castle ( where Stitch gets into the castle by claiming to be Prince Charming from Cinderella . Stitch crawls in and says , `` Oh Cinderella , your prince is here . '' Off - camera , Cinderella ( Jennifer Hale ) realizes that Stitch is not her prince , and kicks him out of the chamber ; alternately , he is shown riding the Astro Orbiter ) . The audience is then released from their duty and exit into one of two gift shops -- Merchant of Venus or Mickey 's Star Traders . On the way to the gift shops , guest see a sign labeled `` Days without an escape '' and a big number going down . It was also the last Tomorrowland attraction that fully lacked a post-show gift shop prior to its opening . In reality , the Carousel of Progress is the only remaining Tomorrowland attraction at Disney World to lack a post-show gift shop .