In 1894 , Spike and Angelus developed a rivalry with the enigmatic Immortal , who later had Spike sent to prison for tax evasion . In 1900 , Spike killed Xin_Rong , a Chinese Slayer while in China during the Boxer Rebellion . In 1943 , he was captured by Nazis for experimentation and taken aboard a submarine , where he was briefly reunited with Angel . By the 1950s , Spike had reunited with Drusilla , and they traveled to Italy . At some point , Spike also became rivals with the famous vampire Dracula . The enmity between Spike and Dracula was explored in the comic series Spike vs. Dracula , in which their mutual hatred is caused when Spike , along with Darla and Drusilla , slaughtered the Romani ( gypsy ) tribe who had cursed their patriarch , Angelus , with a soul , although it is unclear if either Spike or Drusilla knew precisely why Darla was so angry with the tribe . That clan ( unknown to Spike ) was favored by Dracula and he sought revenge for their deaths . Spike later mentions in a conversation with Riley Finn , `` Dracula ? Poncy bugger owes me £ 11 , for one thing , '' because Dracula tossed Spike 's signed copy of Bram Stoker 's Dracula in a fire in 1898 . Spike also notes that Dracula 's fame has done more damage to vampires than any Slayer , since it made their weaknesses more widely known . Spike attended Woodstock in 1969 , whereupon he accidentally became high after ingesting the blood of a hippie , he claims to have spent the next six hours following the incident `` watching my hand move '' . In 1977 he fought and killed a second Slayer , Nikki Wood , aboard a subway train in New York City , taking from her a black leather duster which he wears throughout his appearances on Buffy and Angel until it is destroyed in an explosion in Season Five of Angel , whereupon he gets a new one that looks exactly like the old one ( `` The Girl in Question '' ) . At some point post-1977 , Billy Idol allegedly `` stole '' Spike 's look and made it famous as his own ( as revealed in Season Seven 's `` Sleeper '' ; see `` Appearance '' below ) ; Spike 's thoughts on this are unrecorded . Inasmuch as Buffy knew of the `` theft '' as of `` Sleeper , '' Spike presumably shared the detail with her in an undepicted moment .