Red foxes typically dominate other fox species . Arctic foxes generally escape competition from red foxes by living farther north , where food is too scarce to support the larger - bodied red species . Although the red species ' northern limit is linked to the availability of food , the Arctic species ' southern range is limited by the presence of the former . Red and Arctic foxes were both introduced to almost every island from the Aleutian Islands to the Alexander Archipelago during the 1830s -- 1930s by fur companies . The red foxes invariably displaced the Arctic foxes , with one male red fox having been reported to have killed off all resident Arctic foxes on a small island in 1866 . Where they are sympatric , Arctic foxes may also escape competition by feeding on lemmings and flotsam , rather than voles , as favoured by red foxes . Both species will kill each other 's kits , given the opportunity . Red foxes are serious competitors of corsac foxes , as they hunt the same prey all year . The red species is also stronger , is better adapted to hunting in snow deeper than 10 cm ( 4 in ) and is more effective in hunting and catching medium to large - sized rodents . Corsac foxes seem to only outcompete red foxes in semi-desert and steppe areas . In Israel , Blanford 's foxes escape competition with red foxes by restricting themselves to rocky cliffs and actively avoiding the open plains inhabited by red foxes . Red foxes dominate kit and swift foxes . Kit foxes usually avoid competition with their larger cousins by living in more arid environments , though red foxes have been increasing in ranges formerly occupied by kit foxes due to human - induced environmental changes . Red foxes will kill both species , and compete for food and den sites . Grey foxes are exceptional , as they dominate red foxes wherever their ranges meet . Historically , interactions between the two species were rare , as grey foxes favoured heavily wooded or semiarid habitats as opposed to the open and mesic ones preferred by red foxes . However , interactions have become more frequent due to deforestation allowing red foxes to colonise grey fox - inhabited areas .