No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) 72 `` Extinction '' Sam Hill Nick Santora & Nicholas Wootton September 25 , 2017 ( 2017 - 09 - 25 ) 5.75 Walter gets a call from ex-Scorpion member and old nemesis Mark Collins . While in prison , Mark discovered an extinction event from a temperature shift in Northern Norway . In order to prevent mass extinction , the team has to work with the mad genius to stop methane from leaking through cracks in the ice caused by an earthquake . However , methane geysers are created during an aftershock and , if not plugged up , will start warming the earth 's atmosphere within hours instead of weeks . During the mission , Walter and Paige awkwardly resume their new relationship at work , causing Walter to burst out into song and dance . Also , Sly questions his lack of achievements after seeing his short obituary in a shrine dedicated to him at the Warlock 's Chest . 73 `` More Extinction '' Sam Hill Nick Santora & Nicholas Wootton October 2 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 02 ) 5.23 With the new Homeland Security director refusing to help , Team Scorpion and Mark Collins are forced to come up with a plan to save the world on their own . After learning of a nearby luxury resort for Russian military higher - ups , the team decides to raid it for an experimental assault helicopter and the supplies they need to perform cloud seeding with the intention to cause it to snow and freeze over the crevices . Despite some issues , the team succeeds in stealing the necessary supplies and successfully freezes over the methane hotspots , buying the needed time for specialists to come with methane - eating bacteria to remove the threat completely . However , Collins tricks Cabe and is able to escape . In the aftermath , the team comes to realize that Collins had planned all along to use the extinction event to escape and Cabe is arrested for instigating Collins ' escape . Walter and Paige , after experiencing doubts about their relationship , reconcile and Happy , revealing she recovered his old wedding ring earlier , makes Sly a wedding ring of bandage fragments within a plastic mold . 74 `` Grow a Deer , A Female Deer '' Milan Cheylov David Foster & Nick Santora October 9 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 09 ) 4.82 After learning of Cabe 's arrest from Ally , Scorpion pools their funds to pay his $500,000 bail , angering Cabe . Now in desperate need of funds , Scorpion agrees to fly to Africa to stop a poacher cabal from targeting rhinos . During the mission , Walter 's guilt causes him to channel Cabe 's mannerisms to nearly disastrous effect . After locating the correct valley , Scorpion rescues a deer from a poacher . The deer , which is of a nearly - extinct species , is severely injured and pregnant . The team is forced to move the baby into an artificial womb and to transport both mother and baby to safety while chased by poachers . The team succeeds in saving both mother and child while Ralph is able to decrypt the satellite phone of one of the poachers , identifying the entire organization . With the help of Ralph , Cabe realizes how selfish he 's being , while Ralph develops a crush on Sly 's new intern , Patty . 75 `` Nuke Kids on the Block '' Elodie Keene Paul Grellong & Nicholas Wootton October 16 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 16 ) 4.84 This episode 's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed . Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise . ( December 2017 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) After Paige calls Happy out on third - wheeling all of her and Walter 's dates , tension grows between the two of them . Scorpion is called in to decommission a nuclear missile , but Happy accidentally drops a wrench and punctures the missile 's fuel tank . With four hours until help arrives and the fuel vapors threatening to cause the warhead to detonate , Scorpion comes up with a plan to use a 3D printer and neon gas to create a plug for the leak . A mistake in the gas they receive causes the situation to worsen , so Walter decides to use an explosion to harmlessly launch the warhead into the countryside , where it can safely be recovered later . While the launch is successful , the vapors arm the warhead . At the last second , Happy disarms it and Scorpion leaves the Air Force to clean up the mess . At the same time , Sly 's new intern Patty struggles to save the local science club . Inspired by the events in the missile silo , Sly finds a way to save the city plenty of money to fund the science club . Sly chooses to become Cabe 's lawyer due to their problems in finding him one . Happy announces that she wants to have a baby with Toby , while Walter admits his insecurities about Paige growing bored with their relationship . 76 5 `` Sci Hard '' Dwight H. Little Rob Pearlstein & Nick Santora October 23 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 23 ) 5.15 Walter , Paige , Cabe , Toby , and Happy visit a technology conference in Los Angeles while Sly takes the Vermont bar exam . While at the conference , which features Scorpion 's old acquaintance Richard Elia , the conference is taken over by masked men , resulting in Paige and Walter being taken hostage . As the others try to foil a clever bank robbery scheme , Sly is forced to interrupt his test to help , observed by his test proctor to monitor for possible cheating . Cabe is able to overpower two of the villains and aid Walter and Sly in tricking the remaining two into thinking they have gotten their money . However , Toby and Happy 's attempt to help gets them arrested by a suspicious police detective . In the end , Cabe captures the robbers and Toby and Happy are exonerated . Sly 's efforts to help results in his only answering about seventy percent of the questions before running out of time . To Sly 's shock , he later finds out that the sympathetic proctor rushed his test results through and he passed , meaning that Sly can act as Cabe 's lawyer in his upcoming trial . 77 6 `` Queen Scary '' Omar Madha Adam Higgs & Nicholas Wootton October 30 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 30 ) 4.93 The team meets Dave who offers them a job to prove the existence of ghosts on the Queen Mary for his documentary . Due to the financial problems that the team currently have , they accepted the job though Walter stays behind due to his skepticism . During the mission , the team discovers that the Queen Mary is being used to house an antenna guiding unmanned ships . Due to a malfunction , one such ship ends up a disastrous collision course with a refinery and the team 's attempts to stop it make the situation worse . Finally , Walter manages to board the ship , but is unable to stop it directly due to its damaged electronics . Instead , the team manages to use the ship 's sonar and the Queen Mary 's PA system to create a sonic wall that stops the ship feet from the refinery . Though the ghosts were debunked , Dave still produces a heavily edited version of the documentary . At the end of the episode , Toby manages to get Cabe to open up about his upcoming trial and Cabe finally admits that he 's worried . 78 7 `` Go With the Flo ( rence ) '' Sam Hill Kevin J. Hynes & Nick Santora November 6 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 06 ) 5.18 79 8 `` Faire is Foul '' Sanford Bookstaver Scott Sullivan November 13 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 13 ) 4.74 80 9 `` It 's Raining Men ( of War ) '' Antonio Negret Kim Rome & Nicholas Wootton November 20 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 20 ) 5.13 81 10 `` Crime Every Mountain '' Sam Hill Aadrita Mukerji & Nick Santora November 27 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 27 ) 5.50 While testing a new winch , Scorpion witnesses a plane go down and attempt to help the man flying the plane save his children . Too late , the team learns that the man and his daughter are drug runners and are taken captive , ultimately resulting in Walter and Paige being trapped in a small cave . Toby manages to rescue the two and they are able to outfox and capture the pair . The incident causes Happy to experience some doubts about having children after seeing the father and daughter pair , but is soothed by Toby . At the same time , Cabe attempts to capture Mark Collins with Sly 's help after they receive a lead . However , it is just a trap by Collins who frames Cabe for taking a $50,000 bribe . With Cabe 's situation worsening , Walter attempts to distance himself from Cabe , leading to some strain between him and Paige . In the end , Sly decides to request a bench trial instead of a jury trial so that Cabe 's guilt will only be determined by an experienced judge . While helping prepare for the trial , Walter reconciles with Cabe . 82 11 `` Who Let the Dog Out ( ' Cause Now It 's Stuck In a Cistern ) '' Omar Madha David Foster & Nick Santora December 11 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 11 ) 5.92 Joined by a new handler from Homeland Security and Florence , Scorpion sets out to rescue a diabetic dog trapped underground with only a short time to live . The team manages to save the dog and their handler decides to report to Homeland Security that the team is unconventional but effective and gives his support in allowing the team to continue to operate . At the same time , Cabe goes on trial for aiding and abetting Mark Collins ' escape and taking a bribe . Cabe 's trial is a bench trial overseen by a judge with a history of handing down harsh sentences . The judge rejects most of Sly 's defenses making it seem like Cabe will be convicted . However , Sly has a last minute idea using an obscure case from 1804 and maritime law . Ultimately , the judge dismisses the bribery charges based on evidence presented by Sly of Collins ' bank hacking to frame Cabe . Based on maritime law , Cabe is exonerated for helping Collins escape and is released . At the end of the episode , Sly helps Toby and Florence deal with charges of their own relating to helping him save Cabe and Cabe gives each member of the team a memento with personal value to show their importance to him . 83 12 `` A Christmas Car - Roll '' LeVar Burton Paul Grellong & Nicholas Wootton December 18 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 18 ) 5.35 This episode 's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed . Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise . ( December 2017 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) While the rest of Scorpion plans to enjoy the Christmas holiday , Walter insists on continuing to work , even when he 's alone . As a result , Walter falls in the garage and suffers a serious head injury . Walter is found by Florence who calls the rest of the team for help who try desperately to save Walter 's life . In his mind , Walter experiences a dream world where Scorpion was never formed . As a result , several of the disasters they prevented have happened . In Walter 's dream , he is married to Florence , Paige owns a chain of restaurants , Cabe is the Chief of the LAPD , Sly owns a video game company , Toby is a famous motivational speaker , Happy runs a podcast on rare cars and Ralph is his former silent genius self . Throughout his dream world , Walter is guided by an image of his old friend Ray Spiewack that only he can see and meets Sly 's intern Patty working in several different jobs in relation to the rest of the team . In order to save himself , represented by a doppelganger of Walter trapped in a car accident that experiences several different changes depending on the real Walter 's condition , Walter is forced to bring together the team . In the dream world , Scorpion is able to save Walter 's life and he awakens in the hospital in the real world with Scorpion , the real Ray and Florence visiting him . The dream gives Walter a new perspective on the team while his dream marriage to Florence appears to make Walter intrigued about Florence . 84 13 `` The Bunker Games '' Milan Cheylov Rob Pearlstein January 15 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 15 ) TBD 85 14 `` Lighthouse of the Rising Sun '' Sam Hill Adam Higgs January 22 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 22 ) TBD