Bipolar junction transistor ( BJT ) : heterojunction bipolar transistor , up to several hundred GHz , common in modern ultrafast and RF circuits ; Schottky transistor ; avalanche transistor : Darlington transistors are two BJTs connected together to provide a high current gain equal to the product of the current gains of the two transistors ; insulated-gate bipolar transistors ( IGBTs ) use a medium - power IGFET , similarly connected to a power BJT , to give a high input impedance. Power diodes are often connected between certain terminals depending on specific use . IGBTs are particularly suitable for heavy - duty industrial applications . The ASEA Brown Boveri ( ABB ) 5SNA2400E170100 illustrates just how far power semiconductor technology has advanced . Intended for three - phase power supplies , this device houses three n -- p -- n IGBTs in a case measuring 38 by 140 by 190 mm and weighing 1.5 kg . Each IGBT is rated at 1,700 volts and can handle 2,400 amperes ; phototransistor ; multiple - emitter transistor , used in transistor -- transistor logic and integrated current mirrors ; multiple - base transistor , used to amplify very - low - level signals in noisy environments such as the pickup of a record player or radio front ends . Effectively , it is a very large number of transistors in parallel where , at the output , the signal is added constructively , but random noise is added only stochastically . Field - effect transistor ( FET ) : carbon nanotube field - effect transistor ( CNFET ) , where the channel material is replaced by a carbon nanotube ; junction gate field - effect transistor ( JFET ) , where the gate is insulated by a reverse - biased p -- n junction ; metal -- semiconductor field - effect transistor ( MESFET ) , similar to JFET with a Schottky junction instead of ap -- n junction ; high - electron - mobility transistor ( HEMT ) ; metal -- oxide -- semiconductor field - effect transistor ( MOSFET ) , where the gate is insulated by a shallow layer of insulator ; inverted - T field - effect transistor ( ITFET ) ; fin field - effect transistor ( FinFET ) , source / drain region shapes fins on the silicon surface ; fast - reverse epitaxial diode field - effect transistor ( FREDFET ) ; thin - film transistor , in LCDs ; organic field - effect transistor ( OFET ) , in which the semiconductor is an organic compound ; ballistic transistor ; floating-gate transistor , for non-volatile storage ; FETs used to sense environment ; ion - sensitive field - effect transistor ( IFSET ) , to measure ion concentrations in solution , electrolyte -- oxide -- semiconductor field - effect transistor ( EOSFET ) , neurochip , deoxyribonucleic acid field - effect transistor ( DNAFET ) . Tunnel field - effect transistor , where it switches by modulating quantum tunnelling through a barrier . Diffusion transistor , formed by diffusing dopants into semiconductor substrate ; can be both BJT and FET . Unijunction transistor , can be used as simple pulse generators . It comprise a main body of either P - type or N - type semiconductor with ohmic contacts at each end ( terminals Base1 and Base2 ) . A junction with the opposite semiconductor type is formed at a point along the length of the body for the third terminal ( Emitter ) . Single - electron transistors ( SET ) , consist of a gate island between two tunneling junctions . The tunneling current is controlled by a voltage applied to the gate through a capacitor . Nanofluidic transistor , controls the movement of ions through sub-microscopic , water - filled channels . Multigate devices : tetrode transistor ; pentode transistor ; trigate transistor ( prototype by Intel ) ; dual-gate field - effect transistors have a single channel with two gates in cascode ; a configuration optimized for high - frequency amplifiers , mixers , and oscillators . Junctionless nanowire transistor ( JNT ) , uses a simple nanowire of silicon surrounded by an electrically isolated `` wedding ring '' that acts to gate the flow of electrons through the wire . Vacuum - channel transistor , when in 2012 , NASA and the National Nanofab Center in South Korea were reported to have built a prototype vacuum - channel transistor in only 150 nanometers in size , can be manufactured cheaply using standard silicon semiconductor processing , can operate at high speeds even in hostile environments , and could consume just as much power as a standard transistor . Organic electrochemical transistor .