No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) 70 `` The Flash Reborn '' Glen Winter Story by : Andrew Kreisberg Teleplay by : Todd Helbing & Eric Wallace October 10 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 10 ) T27. 13401 2.84 Iris has been aiding Team Flash in Central City for six months , but refusing to grieve Barry . A flying Samurai with superpowers appears in Central City , threatening to destroy the city if the real Flash does not face him . Cisco reveals he has formulated a way to bring back Barry without destabilizing the Speed Force , and tracks down Caitlin for help . Against Iris ' direction , Team Flash successfully returns Barry , who appears rambling random statements and continually writing symbols on walls . Wally engages the Samurai , but is defeated . Cisco deciphers Barry 's writings and finds an apparently meaningless sentence . In an attempt to recover Barry 's memories , Iris gives herself up to the Samurai . The plan works and Barry speeds away , rescuing Iris and defeating the Samurai , who is revealed to be a robot . Caitlin rejoins Team Flash , but is revealed to have been working for a mobster called Amunet at the bar , while also continuing to prevent the Killer Frost personality from emerging . The `` Samuroid '' is revealed to have been controlled by the Thinker , whose plan was to draw out the Flash for his next schemes . 71 `` Mixed Signals '' Alexandra La Roche Jonathan Butler & Gabriel Garza October 17 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 17 ) T27. 13402 2.54 When Barry , Joe , and Cisco report to a crime scene , they discover remnants of a mysterious code . Cisco presents Barry with a technologically advanced suit , intended to facilitate his activities . He tests it out , trying to save someone from a haywire car , caused by metahuman Ramsey Deacon . Gypsy arrives on Earth - 1 for a date with Cisco , who is forced to cancel it so as to focus on Deacon . Acting on a suggestion from Caitlin , Iris signs her and Barry up for couples therapy to sort out their relationship . Deacon kidnaps a witness , who was previously a member of a tech team who sold him out of his idea . Barry and Wally go to save him , but Deacon uses his abilities to send Barry 's suit haywire . On Iris 's instructions , Barry throws lightning at himself , shorting out his suit . He then incapacitates Deacon , who is locked up in the meta wing of Iron Heights , revealed to be part of the Thinker 's plan . Cisco finally goes out with Gypsy . Wondering how Deacon gained his powers being absent during the particle accelerator incident , Barry and Joe learn from Deacon that there are `` others '' . 72 `` Luck Be a Lady '' Armen V. Kevorkian Sam Chalsen & Judalina Neira October 24 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 24 ) T27. 13403 2.62 In flashbacks , the Thinker observes Becky Sharpe , a woman with seemingly unending bad luck , and determines that she will be easily manipulated . In the present , Becky robs a bank , and gets away when Barry slips on marbles . Harry arrives from Earth - 2 , and tells Wally that Jesse has decided to break up in order to focus on her vigilantism . Cisco deduces that Becky is a metahuman with the power of favorable luck while inducing misfortune to others . Barry realizes that the portal he used to escape the Speed Force exposed an entire busload of people , including Becky and Deacon , to transformative dark matter . Harry informs Cisco that Jesse has expelled him from her crime - fighting team due to his attitude . Becky 's powers expand out of control , reactivating the particle accelerator , which Harry deliberately allows , nullifying Becky 's powers and leading to her incarceration . Cisco and Harry identify twelve new metahumans created on the bus , and the latter suspects that an unknown party has manipulated events surrounding Barry 's return . Wally decides to leave on a journey to find himself . The Thinker is revealed to be spying on S.T.A.R. Labs through the `` Samuroid '' helmet . Joe learns Cecile is pregnant . 73 `` Elongated Journey Into Night '' Tom Cavanagh Sterling Gates & Thomas Pound October 31 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 31 ) T27. 13404 1.99 Gypsy 's father , Breacher , attacks Cisco , vowing to hunt and kill him in 24 hours , allowing the romance should he survive . Team Flash learns that the bus driver was murdered and tracks down another passenger , Ralph Dibny , former corrupt CCPD detective exposed by Barry and currently an infamous private investigator . As two thugs attack Dibny , he is revealed to have the power to stretch . Caitlin stabilizes his powers with a serum . The team learns that Ralph has been blackmailing Mayor Bellows for adultery , with the latter revealed to have hired the thugs . Barry confronts Ralph for his actions while the latter scolds him , claiming to have been a `` good cop '' . He later stops blackmailing Bellows , who still attempts to kill him while Breacher mistakes the former for a Plastoid , the species that invaded Earth - 19 previously , and attacks him . Cisco intervenes and saves Ralph , whom Barry , having revealed his alter - ego , convinces to help arrest an escaping Bellows . Admiring Cisco 's gallantry , Breacher allows the relationship . Barry recruits Ralph for Team Flash and learns that someone named DeVoe instructed Ralph to watch Bellows . Barry remembers that Abra Kadabra and Savitar both mentioned DeVoe . Meanwhile , Caitlin finds a message on her apartment door . 74 5 `` Girls Night Out '' Laura Belsey Lauren Certo & Kristen Kim November 7 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 07 ) T27. 13405 2.38 While failing to track DeVoe , Team Flash is visited by Felicity , who joins Iris 's bachelorette party . Mocking Cisco 's plans for Barry 's bachelor party , Ralph takes the men to a strip club , where they learn that Cecile 's daughter , Joanie , is working . Joe confronts her , who states she is only doing feminist research . Ralph incites a brawl , leading to the men 's arrest until Harry posts bail . Meanwhile , Amunet 's enforcer , Norvock , demands Caitlin 's return and attacks the women when she refuses . Killer Frost emerges and repels him , later telling Iris that Caitlin accepted Amunet 's employment in exchange for the means to control Frost . Learning that Amunet is holding a metahuman she calls `` the Weeper '' , whose tears are a strong narcotic , prisoner and intends to sell him , Iris 's party decides to stop her . Though Caitlin refuses to join , she attacks Amunet when seeing her friends in danger . Using a strong magnet , the team robs Amunet 's metal shards , leaving her powerless . Iris dissuades Frost from killing Amunet , who promises revenge . Both parties refuse to tell each other about their adventures . Iris asks Caitlin to be her maid of honor while Joe convinces Joanie to tell Cecile about her research . DeVoe captures the Weeper . 75 6 `` When Harry Met Harry ... '' Brent Crowell Jonathan Butler & Gabriel Garza November 14 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 14 ) T27. 13406 2.46 Barry trains Ralph to use his abilities , with Cisco making a stretchable suit for him . Another bus metahuman , a Lakota Sioux Native named Mina Chayton , who can animate statues , starts attacking Central City & stealing pieces of a Black Bison necklace , which she claims belongs to her tribe . When Barry and Ralph catch up to her , she attacks Barry with a caveman statue and attempts a getaway . Ralph chooses to stop her , but a little girl is injured in the process . Ralph regrets his actions , but is comforted by Barry . Chayton escapes CCPD , going after the last necklace piece held at the museum . When Barry and Ralph confront her , she brings a dinosaur skeleton to life . Barry arrests Chayton while Ralph saves a security guard from the skeleton . Later , Ralph reveals he mailed the necklace back to Chayton 's tribe , before visiting the little girl in the hospital , using his abilities to entertain her . Meanwhile , Harry , trying to make friends , works with his doppelgangers of alternate Earths , The Council of Wells . They figure out that DeVoe is a man named Clifford DeVoe . Barry and Joe head to DeVoe 's house , to find out that he is a middle - aged man in a wheelchair . 76 7 `` Therefore I Am '' David McWhirter Eric Wallace & Thomas Pound November 21 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 21 ) T27. 13407 2.20 Barry and Joe interrogate DeVoe and his wife to try and get more information . In flashbacks , DeVoe and his wife build a thinking cap to improve his brain capacity , powering it through the particle accelerator explosion . DeVoe 's increased brain power accelerates his amyotrophic lateral sclerosis , forcing his wife to build him a special chair to keep him alive . Barry discovers the camera in the Samuroid head and confronts DeVoe , who reveals his true identity , leading to Cisco dubbing him `` The Thinker '' . Wally returns to Team Flash from Blue Valley . 77 8 `` Crisis on Earth - X , Part 3 '' Dermott Downs Story by : Andrew Kreisberg & Marc Guggenheim Teleplay by : Todd Helbing November 28 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 28 ) T27. 13408 2.82 Barry , Oliver , Sara , Alex , Martin and Jax wake up in a Nazi concentration camp on Earth - X , with power dampening handcuffs . The arriving SS - Sturmbannführer is revealed to be the Earth - X doppelgänger of Quentin Lance , who takes them away for execution , before they are saved by Citizen Cold ( the Earth - X doppelgänger of Leonard Snart ) and The Ray ( Ray Terrill ) . Snart and Terrill take them to the underground headquarter of the Freedom Fighters , where the team meets the resistance movement 's leader General Winn Schott ( Winn Schott 's Earth - X doppelgänger ) . They learned that the only way back to Earth - 1 is through a temporal gateway in a Nazi facility , which Schott plans to blow up to strand Dark Arrow ( Oliver 's Earth - X doppelgänger ) on Earth - 1 . Oliver disguises himself as Dark Arrow to infiltrate the facility , discovers the Nazi 's doomsday device against parallel Earths is a militarized timeship called Wellenreiter , and saves a prisoner ( who is Felicity 's Earth - X doppelgänger ) from Quentin . Barry and Ray battle the Freedom Fighters ' Red Tornado to stop it from destroying the temporal gateway , while the rest of the team enters the facility . In attempting to reactivate the gateway 's portal , Stein is shot and gravely wounded . Back on Earth - 1 , Thawne prepares to perform surgery on Kara to save Overgirl at S.T.A.R. Labs . Felicity and Iris try to stop him , but are captured . This episode continues a crossover event that begins on Supergirl season 3 episode 8 and Arrow season 6 episode 8 , and concludes on Legends of Tomorrow season 3 episode 8 . 78 9 `` Do n't Run '' Stefan Pleszczynski Sam Chalsen & Judalina Neira December 5 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 05 ) T27. 13409 2.22 While out Christmas shopping , Barry is ambushed and kidnapped by DeVoe while Caitlin is kidnapped from Jitters by Amunet . Iris claims they have to look for both of them , despite Wells ' claim that they have insufficient time and resources and that they can only afford to search for one . Barry is held in DeVoe 's lair . Caitlin is forced by Amunet to perform surgery on a metahuman named Dominic Lanse , who can read minds . They try to escape , but Amunet blocks their exit . Caitlin manages to briefly incapacitate Amunet , and she and Dominic flee the building they are being held in . Once outside , they are rescued by Cisco and Ralph , as Iris has chosen to focus on finding Caitlin . Barry manages to escape from DeVoe . Team Flash celebrates Christmas at the West house and Dominic joins them . Barry gets a security alert from his apartment . When he arrives , he receives a phone call from Dominic , who reveals that Amunet re-kidnapped Dominic and DeVoe has transferred his consciousness into Dominic 's body . Barry discovers DeVoe 's original body dead on his apartment floor and he realizes DeVoe has framed him for his `` murder '' ; the police arrive , and Barry lets himself get arrested , not wanting to leave Iris again . 79 10 `` The Trial of The Flash '' Philip Chipera Lauren Certo & Kristen Kim January 16 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 16 ) TBA TBD 80 11 `` The Elongated Knight Rises '' Alexandra La Roche Sterling Gates & Thomas Pound January 23 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 23 ) TBA TBD