No . Title Directed by Written by Original air date UK viewers ( millions ) `` Episode 1 '' Sandra Goldbacher Sarah Phelps 1 April 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 01 ) TBD Rachel Argyll falls to the floor , bleeding profusely from a wound to the back of her head caused by a whisky decanter . As her body is being carried off on a stretcher , one of her five adopted children , Jack , is fingerprinted and talks the crime over with his dad , Leo Argyll , at the police station . Jack is later beaten to death in prison and the family buries him . Eighteen months later , Leo Argyll is preparing to marry his secretary , Gwenda Vaughan . This sees the return of son Mickey to the house and the arrival of a strange visitor , Dr Arthur Calgary , who reveals that he gave a lift to Jack at the time that Rachel Argyll was murdered , thus proving belatedly Jack 's innocence . The delay in coming forward is explained away by Calgary being a physicist who has been in the Arctic on a research project . Later , whilst Calgary is sleeping in his hotel room , Mickey Argyll goes to question him and warn him off . At the hotel , Philip Durrant , the husband of Rachel 's eldest adopted daughter , joins Calgary for dinner to propose a plan to make money from Calgary 's revelation by selling the story to the newspapers . Durrant , a former Royal Air Force pilot who was disabled in a car crash , is shown as an abusive husband and a morphine addict . His wife Mary Durrant is also nasty to Tina Argyll and tells Gwenda that she will never replace her mother . `` Episode 2 '' Sandra Goldbacher Sarah Phelps 8 April 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 08 ) TBD Dr Calgary revisits Sunny Point and is spotted by Hester before Mickey forces him into a car and drives him to a railway station . He assaults Calgary and firmly puts him on a train and tells him to leave . Whilst in motion , Calgary gets the train to stop in the middle of nowhere so he can get off and go back . Over breakfast at Sunny Point , Phillip antagonises everyone and causes many arguments between the siblings . He points out that trying to hide the new found evidence from Calgary , would look suspicious to the police . Calgary later telephones the house with the housemaid , Kirsten , picking up the phone at the same time as Leo Argyll . Calgary informs Argyll that he is going to the police with Kirsten overhearing it all but saying nothing . Whilst Calgary is walking on the road , he is stopped by Bellamy Gould , Chief Constable and friend of Leo Argyll , who is driving a car . Gould questions Calgary 's statement and seems to leave only to turn around and try to run Calgary down . Gould dies in trying , but Calgary survives . Calgary eventually gets a fair hearing form Leo Argyll and stays overnight at the house giving his version of events over dinner . The four remaining Argyll siblings meet later that night in the woods and argue about where they all were on the night of Rachel 's murder and bicker in a display of sibling rivalry with Mary Durrant appearing as the most upset by events and how she feels the other children spoilt her relationship with Rachel . Near the end of the episode , Phillip Durrant is trying to leave the house when he hears footsteps behind him , he turns and says `` of course it 's you ! '' . In the morning , Calgary reveals he wrote a detonation formula for the bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki , this led him to go mad and be detained against his will at an asylum , not away at the Arctic , as he claimed in the first episode . On the night that Rachel died , he escaped and gave a lift to Jack . At breakfast , Calgary mentions that the shower in the Durrant 's room has been going for some time . Leo Argyll and Calgary go to investigate and find Phillip Durrant dead on the floor of the shower with a hypodermic needle in his arm . `` Episode 3 '' Sandra Goldbacher Sarah Phelps 15 April 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 15 ) 5.5 million This episode runs over a very short time period but has flashbacks for all the characters and details their reasons for possibly being the killer of Rachel . Hester runs away from the house and when Rachel tracks her down , she drugs her and takes her to hospital where she instructs the doctor to terminate the pregnancy . Jack witnesses Mickey and Tina in a passionate embrace and uses this against Rachel . Later we see Rachel telling Tina that she is filth . When Rachel goes into Leo 's study and discovers women 's underwear on the floor , she goes to the very top floor of the house and catches Leo and Gwenda on the bed . She informs Gwenda that Leo has a habit of sleeping with the staff and that she is not the first . Gwenda retaliates in kind and Rachel smacks her across the face . Rachel tells Leo she is divorcing him and through the conversation , it is understood that the money is in her name and he will be penniless . When she leaves Leo 's study , she is confronted by Mary who is upset that Rachel does not love her . Rachel tells her that she only adopted her because she was sad , and that it was n't Mary 's fault she could not stop her sadness . Jack witnesses this and is aghast , so he confronts his mother and she in turn tells him he is the son of Kirsten , the cook . Jack goes go see Kirsten and through another flashback , Jack is shown in the police station telling Leo that he knows that Leo is his father and that Kirsten is his mother . He tells Leo acidly that he will destroy him and ruin his life . Rachel is then shown being hit on the head with an Egyptian statuette by Leo and soon afterwards , Kirsten goes in to confront her about telling Jack of his parentage . Rachel dies in Kirsten 's arms and the policeman , Gould , conspires with Leo to have Jack killed in prison . After Phillip is discovered dead , Leo has Calgary taken away to the asylum and Leo is confronted by his children and Kirsten who show him the statuette as the murder weapon , not the decanter that had Jack 's fingerprints on it . Later , Gwenda and the four remaining children are shown on the dock by the lake dressed up for the wedding , but with police divers searching the lake . Gwenda is asking why Leo has killed himself . Later , Leo is shown waking up in the bunker underneath the house and pleading to be let out whilst Kirsten walks way smiling .