Later , in the Fascist era of the 1920s and 30s , government censorship and interference with music occurred , though not on a systematic basis . Prominent examples include the notorious anti-modernist manifesto of 1932 and Mussolini 's banning of G.F. Malipiero 's opera La favola del figlio cambiato after one performance in 1934 . The music media often criticized music that was perceived as either politically radical or insufficiently Italian . General print media , such as the Enciclopedia Moderna Italiana , tended to treat traditionally favored composers such as Giacomo Puccini and Pietro Mascagni with the same brevity as composers and musicians that were not as favored -- modernists such as Alfredo Casella and Ferruccio Busoni ; that is , encyclopedia entries of the era were mere lists of career milestones such as compositions and teaching positions held . Even the conductor Arturo Toscanini , an avowed opponent of Fascism , gets the same neutral and distant treatment with no mention at all of his `` anti-regime '' stance . Perhaps the best - known episode of music colliding with politics involves Toscanini . He had been forced out of the musical directorship at La Scala in Milan in 1929 because he refused to begin every performance with the fascist song , `` Giovinezza '' . For this insult to the regime , he was attacked and beaten on the street outside the Bologne opera after a performance in 1931 . During the Fascist era , political pressure stymied the development of classical music , although censorship was not as systematic as in Nazi Germany . A series of `` racial laws '' was passed in 1938 , thus denying to Jewish composers and musicians membership in professional and artistic associations . Although there was not a massive flight of Italian Jews from Italy during this period ( compared to the situation in Germany ) composer Mario Castelnuovo - Tedesco , an Italian Jew , was one of those who emigrated . Some non-Jewish foes of the regime also emigrated -- Toscanini , for one .