May 1962 : Pvt . Larry Allen Abshier abandoned his post in South Korea in May 1962 when he crept away from his base and crossed the DMZ into North Korea . Abshier was the first to defect . Also in May 1962 , Cpl . Jerry Parrish crossed the DMZ into North Korea . His reasons for defecting , according to Jenkins ' autobiography The Reluctant Communist , were `` personal , and ( Parrish ) did n't elaborate about them much except to say that if he ever went home , his father - in - law would kill him . '' Aug 1962 : James Joseph Dresnok was a Pfc . with a U.S. Army unit along the Korean Demilitarized Zone . Soon after his arrival he found himself facing a court martial for forging signatures on paperwork that gave him permission to leave base and which , ultimately , led to his being AWOL ( Absent Without Official Leave ) . Unwilling to face punishment , on 15 August 1962 , while his fellow soldiers were eating lunch , he ran across a minefield in broad daylight into North Korean territory , where he was quickly apprehended by North Korean soldiers . Dresnok was taken by train to Pyongyang , the North Korean capital , and interrogated . 1964 : North Korea creates an underground group : Revolution Party for Reunification . This group is ground down and eliminated by South Korean authorities by 1969 Jan 1965 : Charles Jenkins , the most notable case , defected to North Korea . In South Korea he was assigned to night patrols . As a result of fears that he would be transferred to combat duty in Vietnam , he grew depressed and anxious , and started drinking alcohol . On the night of 4 January 1965 , after reportedly drinking ten beers , he set off on his nightly patrol of the Demilitarized Zone . In the early morning he told his patrol that he was going to investigate a noise . He subsequently crossed into North Korea and surrendered to forces there , in hopes of being sent to Russia and then , through prisoner exchange , eventually returned to America . Shortly thereafter North Korean propaganda declared that a U.S. sergeant had defected , and broadcast statements allegedly made by the defector , reportedly in stilted English . The U.S. Army claimed Jenkins wrote four letters stating his intention to defect ( an allegation Jenkins denies ) ; however , the original letters are reportedly lost . His relatives maintained throughout his absence that he was abducted . 27 April 1965 : Two North Korean MiG - 17s attack a United States EC - 121 Warning Star reconnaissance plane in the waters east of the Korean Peninsula , 80 km ( 50 mi ) from the North Korean shore . The aircraft was damaged , but managed to land at Yokota Air Base , Japan . 17 January 1968 : In an incident known as the Blue House Raid , a 31 - man detachment from the Korean People 's Army secretly crossed the DMZ on a mission to kill South Korean President Park Chung - hee on 21 January , nearly succeeding . The incursion was discovered after South Korean civilians confronted the North Koreans and informed South Korean authorities . After entering Seoul disguised as South Korean soldiers , the North Koreans attempt to enter the Blue House ( the official residence of the President of South Korea ) . They are confronted by South Korean police and a firefight ensued . The North Koreans fled Seoul and individually attempted to cross the DMZ back to North Korea . Of the original group of 31 North Koreans , 28 were killed , one was captured and two are unaccounted for . Additionally , 68 South Koreans were killed and 66 were wounded , the majority of whom were soldiers and police officers . Three American soldiers were also killed and three were wounded . 23 January 1968 : The United States Naval ship the USS Pueblo is boarded and captured , along with its crew , by North Korean forces in the waters east of the Korean Peninsula . The entire crew of 83 is captured , with the exception of one sailor killed in the initial attack on the vessel , and the vessel was taken to a North Korean port . All the captives were released on 23 December of the same year via the Bridge of No Return at the DMZ . The USS Pueblo is still in North Korean possession and is docked in Pyongyang and is on display as a museum ship . 30 October 1968 : From 30 October - 2 November 120 - 130 North Korean commandos land on the northeast shore of South Korea , allegedly to establish a base in order to wage a guerrilla war against the South Korean government . A total of 110 - 113 were killed , seven were captured and 13 escaped . Around 20 South Korean civilians , law enforcement officers and soldiers were killed . March 1969 : Six North Korean commandos kill a South Korean police officer near Jumunjin , Gangwon - do . Seven American soldiers are killed in a North Korean attack along the DMZ . April 1969 : An EC - 121 , U.S. reconnaissance plane is shot down 90 miles ( 140 km ) east of the North Korean coast , leaving 31 dead . November 1969 : Four U.S. soldiers are killed by North Koreans in the Demilitarized Zone .