Act Order Performance Description Result Angelica Hale Singer ; performed `` Symphony '' by Clean Bandit featuring Zara Larsson . Advanced Chase Goehring Singer - Songwriter / Guitarist ; performed an original song called `` Mirror '' . Top 10 Sara and Hero Dog Act ; Hero freed Sara from a glass cube by pressing a button . Hero danced around Sara 's legs before Loki ran out and performed alongside Hero . Hero balanced on Sara 's feet and put his front legs in the air . Loki jumped over obstacles and ran through a tube , then Loki jumped rope , with Sara and Hero holding the ends . Hero jumped on his hind legs with Sara , then Sara made hoops with her hands for Loki to jump through . The act ended with Hero running up a ramp and jumping high through the air over a ball pit to grab a dangling bone . Advanced Diavolo Dance / Acrobat Crew ; Two acrobats danced around a door before opening it up to reveal acrobats dancing , jumping and sliding on ramps . They then transferred to a large rocking apparatus , climbing on and leaping off of it , and catching each other , with themes of fire and thunder in the background . Top 10 Evie Clair 5 Singer ; performed `` What a Wonderful World '' by Louis Armstrong . Top 10 Preacher Lawson 6 Stand - Up Comedian ; recalled an interaction on the street with a mostly naked man who proclaimed `` Black Power '' despite being white . He said the man asked to borrow $75 , and noted that the man would definitely use it for drugs . He then performed an energetic physical bit , imitating the man by shaking and repeating the same phrase over and over . He ended by making a meta observation that while some audience members die laughing from this joke , others say , `` How long is he gon na do this for ? '' Top 10 Kechi Okwuchi 7 Singer ; performed `` Conqueror '' by Estelle . Top 10 Darci Lynne Farmer 8 Singing Ventriloquist ; puppets Oscar and Petunia bickered over who should sing for the Finals . The two puppets then told Darci to keep her mouth closed while they both performed a version of `` With a Little Help from My Friends '' by The Beatles . Advanced Mandy Harvey 9 Singer - Songwriter / Ukeleleist ; performed an original song called `` This Time '' . Advanced Light Balance 10 Light - Up Dance Group ; urban dance with chromatic lights . At the beginning , echoing the group 's past performances , a dancer in a top hat sat on a chair ( Preliminary auditions ) , followed by a werewolf ( Quarterfinals ) that seemingly tore one of the android dancers in half , although its top and bottom halves soon rejoined , and ended with a person resembling a video game character ( Semifinals ) . Advanced