Episode 6 ( March 1865 - April 1865 ) - The fighting ends with a Northern victory . Orry and George lead troops against each other in the last major battle at Petersburg ; Orry is wounded . Confederate General Robert E. Lee surrenders his army to U.S. Army General Ulysses Grant . With the war over , Charles goes to Augusta 's farm and finds that she has died giving birth to his child , a son . He goes to Charleston and gets his child from Augusta 's uncle 's wife . Billy also quits the army and reunites with Brett at her family 's plantation . Congressman Greene ends his affair with Virgilia , which he thinks detrimental to his political career . Virgilia learns that Greene had been lying to her about the seriousness of the charges and using Virgilia 's dependence for his own gratification ; she murders the congressman and is sentenced to death by hanging . She and George have a tearful farewell before her execution . George learns that Orry is wounded and searches for him , finally finding him in a Union hospital . Their reunion is spoiled when both learn that President Lincoln has been shot . George helps Orry find Madeline , who reveals that Orry is now the father of their son . Orry , Madeline , their baby , and George all set out for the Main plantation . Salem Jones , the cruel former overseer of the Main plantation , joins with one of the Main 's former slaves , Cuffey , in an attack on the Main plantation ; they burn the mansion before being killed or driven off by Charles , Billy , and Ezra , a former slave who is engaged to marry Semiramis . Orry , George , and Madeline arrive , with the former two helping to fend off the last of the attackers . Οrry 's mother is killed in the attack by Cuffey while trying to prevent Semiramis ' rape , but Cuffey is shot dead by Charles , while Salem Jones is shot dead by Brett when he is about to shoot Billy . Orry and George pledge to renew their family 's friendship , and George agrees to help Orry rebuild his plantation home by reopening the cotton mill and letting Orry take the profits .