No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) 16 17 `` The Siege of Lothal '' Bosco Ng & Brad Rau Henry Gilroy June 20 , 2015 ( 2015 - 06 - 20 ) 201 202 0.59 On orders to hunt down the Rebels and especially the Jedi among them , Darth Vader begins an oppressive campaign against Lothal 's populace in order to find the group . The Ghost crew starts working with the wider Rebel cells , but are divided between joining the larger network and waging open war on the Empire , or staying out of a large - scale fight . The situation is even more complicated when Minister Maketh Tua , fearing punishment for failing to neutralize the Lothal rebels , tries to defect to them in order to escape Vader , offering to reveal the truth behind why the Emperor wants the planet . However , Vader uses this to his advantage and orchestrates Tua 's murder by shuttle explosion , framing the rebels for the act and turning Lothal 's population against them . The Ghost crew tries to flee but are cornered by Vader , who injures Kanan and Sabine and nearly kills Ezra before they finally escape . After being smuggled off - world by Lando Calrissian to escape the Empire , the demoralized crew meet up with Ahsoka 's rebel cell , but Vader pursues them and proceeds to wipe out most of the rebel ships , discovering Ahsoka 's presence during a mental encounter via the Force . Ahsoka 's mind is temporarily overwhelmed in the process . She later joins the Ghost crew as they vow to join the wider fight against the Empire . Darth Vader later reports Ahsoka 's existence to Emperor Palpatine , who issues Vader new orders to dispatch another one of their Inquisitors to capture the crew of the Ghost . 18 `` The Lost Commanders '' Dave Filoni & Sergio Paez Matt Michnovetz October 14 , 2015 ( 2015 - 10 - 14 ) 203 0.46 Having barely escaped total destruction of the rebel cell Phoenix Squadron by Darth Vader , Ahsoka Tano sends the Ghost Crew to locate a former military commander somewhere in the Seelos system who has the knowledge of useful hideouts in the Outer Rim . The crew discover the commander to be former clone trooper Captain Rex , accompanied by Commander Wolffe and clone commando Gregor . Kanan is immediately hostile due to the clones ' role in Order 66 although Rex claims they removed their brain chips . Ezra negotiates with Rex for information relating to potential bases . In return Gregor enlists them for a hunt by using Zeb as bait to catch an elusive Joopa . With the hunt successful , Rex holds up his end of the deal but Sabine discovers that Wolffe betrayed the Ghost crew 's location to the Empire . A skirmish with an Imperial probe damages the Phantom shuttle , the crew is temporarily stranded with the clones waiting for an Imperial assault . 19 `` Relics of the Old Republic '' Bosco Ng Steven Melching October 21 , 2015 ( 2015 - 10 - 21 ) 204 0.54 The Empire tracks the Lothal Rebels to Seelos . Admiral Konstantine and Agent Kallus arrive at the Seelos System to capture the Jedi . Rex gives the Lothal Rebels a datachip containing old Republic bases in the Outer Rim . Ezra tries to persuade the clones to join the Rebellion , but Rex and the clones instead offer to delay the Empire so the Lothal Rebels can escape . Agent Kallus commands the clones to hand over the Rebels , but when Rex refuses , Kallus arrives with three AT - ATs . Taking advantage of a sandstorm and the Force , Kanan , Ezra and the clones use their AT - TE 's main gun to destroy one of the AT - ATs . Meanwhile , Admiral Konstantine is summoned away by Darth Vader . Instead of meeting him , the admiral meets Fifth Brother , who claims that he will succeed where Kallus and Konstantine have failed . The Lothal Rebels prepare to leave on the Phantom , but Ezra is unwilling to leave Rex and the clones behind . Kanan , Ezra , and Zeb commandeer one of the AT - ATs and turn its weapons on Kallus ' AT - AT which Rex destroys with a critical hit . Kallus flees the battle on a speeder . Hera returns to pick up the clones and the Ghost crew . Returning to the Rebel flotilla , the Lothal Rebels and Rex reunite with Ahsoka . 20 5 `` Always Two There Are '' Brad Rau Kevin Hopps October 28 , 2015 ( 2015 - 10 - 28 ) 205 0.54 Zeb , Sabine , and Chopper , with Ezra volunteering himself to avoid Kanan and Rex , head out to an old republic medical base in search of vital medical supplies only to be encountered by the Seventh Sister and the Fifth Brother . The Seventh Sister captures Ezra and interrogates him about the whereabouts of Ahsoka Tano while Sabine is also captured by the Fifth Brother . Zeb and Chopper eventually rescue them and they all barely escape the inquisitors and head back to the rebel fleet where Ezra pointedly questions Kanan about the extra inquisitors . 21 6 `` Brothers of the Broken Horn '' Saul Ruiz Bill Wolkoff November 4 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 04 ) 206 0.55 Ezra receives a distress signal from Vizago 's ship . Ezra and Chopper decide to see what has happened . When Ezra and Chopper arrive at the ship , they find out that the ship has been taken over by Hondo Ohnaka . They find out that Vizago is captured inside the ship and Ezra helps him get it back . 22 7 `` Wings of the Master '' Dave Filoni & Sergio Paez Steven Melching November 11 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 11 ) 207 0.55 Phoenix Squadron tries to break an Imperial blockade in order to provide food supplies to those who need it , but their transport is destroyed and the mission fails . Hera is then tasked go to a planet whose atmosphere is very difficult to fly in to get a ship being built by a Mon Calamari named Quarrie that can break the blockade . After nearly crashing her shuttle , Hera manages to convince Quarrie to let her pilot the ship , called the Blade Wing , or B - Wing for short . With the Blade Wing 's firepower , Hera manages to singlehandedly destroy one of the Imperial blockade ships , allowing the Ghost to break the blockade and deliver the needed supplies . 23 8 `` Blood Sisters '' Bosco Ng Kevin Hopps November 18 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 18 ) 208 0.47 Sabine is sent by Hera to acquire an unknown information courier . She goes with Ezra and Chopper and they find that the courier is a clunky droid . They then encounter Ketsu Onyo , ( Gina Torres ) an old `` friend '' of Sabine 's who works as a bounty hunter and is now after the droid . When some Storm Troopers begin to fire at them , Sabine and Chopper steal a ship and go off planet with the droid , unfortunately with Ezra left behind . Ketsu also escapes and after a confrontation with Sabine with her personal ship , captures Chopper and the two meet up to trade the droids . Their activity draws the attention of an Empire ship and the two team up to escape by setting charges on the stolen ship . Sabine is knocked out and almost left to go with the ship , but Ketsu saves her and the explosion allows them to fly the droid to a rebel location and then meet back up with Ezra and Hera before Ketsu leaves on better terms with Sabine . 24 9 `` Stealth Strike '' Brad Rau Matt Michnovetz November 25 , 2015 ( 2015 - 11 - 25 ) 209 0.55 Ezra and Commander Sato are captured when a new Imperial weapon -- an experimental Interdictor cruiser -- generates a gravity well strong enough to pull ships out of hyperspace . Hera sends Kanan , Rex and Chopper to rescue them , using a stolen shuttle , stormtrooper armor , and Rex 's knowledge of Imperial codes and protocols to infiltrate the cruiser . Ezra and Chopper head to the reactor to sabotage the cruiser , but Rex is captured as he and Kanan escort Sato and his crew to their shuttle . Kanan heads back to rescue Rex and they deploy an escape pod , as Chopper 's sabotage causes the gravity well projectors to overload , pulling the other Imperial cruisers towards the Interdictor and destroying it . 25 10 `` The Future of the Force '' Saul Ruiz Bill Wolkoff December 2 , 2015 ( 2015 - 12 - 02 ) 210 0.49 Ahsoka informs Kanan that she 's continuing her investigation on the Sith Lord Darth Vader , but finding information on him is difficult . In the mean time , she receives word of two sets of coordinates that cross the Imperial net . She heads to look into one of them while dispatching Kanan , Ezra , Zeb , and Chopper to the other . Ahsoka arrives at her location first , a ransacked passenger ship adrift in space , and finds signs of weapon damage all over . The lone survivor , a grandmother , claims `` two redblades '' kidnapped her grandchild from her and disappeared . Ahsoka informs the team at their destination on a distant planet that the two Inquisitors are involved . Zeb and Chopper locate the Inquisitors ' fighters at the spaceport and reclaim the baby stored in one before destroying them , while Kanan and Ezra find the distressed mother of the second child . Chopper takes the first child to the Phantom shuttle while Zeb encounters the Inquisitors on the street after relieving a fleeing droid of the second baby . Kanan , Zeb , and Ezra discover that the children are force sensitive and were targeted by the Inquisitors to ensure they do not become Jedi . They attempt to lose the Inquisitors through a housing block on their way back to the shuttle , but are overpowered by them . Ahsoka appears and easily defeats both of the Inquisitors while the rest escape , using the Force to jump up and join them in the shuttle as it passes overhead . The Rebels escape , but not before one of Seventh Sister 's probe droids hears Ezra saying they 're going to the planet Garel . 26 11 `` Legacy '' Mel Zwyer Henry Gilroy December 9 , 2015 ( 2015 - 12 - 09 ) 211 0.55 Ezra has a vivid dream about his parents , which he is convinced is a vision which will lead him to discover their fate . Hera and Kanan reveal that they have secretly spent months investigating Imperial prisons , and have heard about a recent prison break . As the Ghost prepares to return to Lothal to investigate Ezra 's visions , the Imperial fleet arrives at Garel based on the intelligence from the Seventh Sister 's probe droid . Ezra and Kanan escape to Lothal in the Phantom , while the Ghost remains behind to assist the escape of the rebel fleet . On Lothal , Ezra follows a Loth - cat which appeared in his dream to Prisoner X-10 , one of the escapees who is the former Governor of Lothal , Ryder Azadi . Azadi tells Ezra that his parents heard his broadcast and it had inspired them to organize the prison break in which he had escaped , however Ezra 's parents had been killed during the breakout . While saddened at his parents ' deaths , Ezra takes solace in that they heard his message , and Kanan comforts him by telling him that his parents live on inside him . 27 12 `` A Princess on Lothal '' Bosco Ng Steven Melching January 20 , 2016 ( 2016 - 01 - 20 ) 212 0.60 While Ezra grapples with the news about his parents , the rebels make plans with Senator Bail Organa to secure three much - needed cruisers . Leading the mission is an agent hand - picked by the Senator : his daughter , Princess Leia . Leia meets up with Kanan and Ezra and plans to have the Rebels `` steal '' her ships so as not to reveal Alderaan 's support . However , their plans are thwarted when Imperial security proves to be much stronger than expected . The trio link back up with rest of the Ghost crew , rescuing Azadi from an Imperial patrol in the process . Leia then inspires the crew to come up with plan to steal the cruisers , with Leia distracting the guards while the Phantom provides air support and Azadi disables the gravity locks on the cruisers . The plan is a success , with the Rebels managing to steal all three cruisers while Leia blames the Imperials for their `` failure '' to protect them . Inspired by the actions of Leia and Rebels , Azadi decides to join the cause . 28 13 `` The Protector of Concord Dawn '' Brad Rau Henry Gilroy & Kevin Hopps January 27 , 2016 ( 2016 - 01 - 27 ) 213 0.48 With the Empire tightening its cordon around Lothal , the Rebels look for a new smuggling route . Hera and Sabine head out to the world of Concord Dawn to request safe passage from the Protectors , the Mandalorian faction that controls the world . However , the Protectors reveal that they have sided with the Empire and immediately attack . Hera and Sabine manage to escape , but Hera is critically wounded . Kanan and Sabine return to Concord Dawn , with Kanan still wanting to negotiate with the Protectors and Sabine wanting to get revenge for Hera . They discover the Protector 's leader , Fenn Rau ( Kevin McKidd ) , is being bribed by the Empire . Kanan meets with Rau , revealing that Rau had saved his life during the Clone Wars . Meanwhile , Sabine attempts to sabotage the Protectors ' fighters but is caught . She reveals to the Protectors that she is from House Vizsla , and challenges Rau to single combat . Working together , Kanan and Sabine capture Rau , and he agrees to allow the Rebels safe passage through Concord Dawn . 29 14 `` Legends of the Lasat '' Saul Ruiz Matt Michnovetz February 3 , 2016 ( 2016 - 02 - 03 ) 214 0.56 Following a tip from Hondo , the Ghost crew rescues a pair of Lasats from Imperial custody : Chava the Wise and Gron , who both recognize Zeb as Captain of the Lasan Honor Guard . Chava and Gron explain that they are searching for the mythical world of Lira San , where the surviving Lasats can find refuge . However , Zeb is reluctant to help due to his guilt over failing to protect Lasan from the Empire . With some encouragement from Ezra , Zeb transforms his Bo - Rifle into its true form and combines it with Chava 's staff , revealing Lira San 's location in uncharted Wild Space . However , they find their way blocked by a dense cluster of black holes while Agent Kallus pursues them . Trusting in Chava 's wisdom , Zeb uses the energy from his Bo - Rifle to create a protective field around the Ghost , allowing it to navigate the black hole cluster safely . On the other side , they find the world of Lira San , which is the true home planet of the Lasat people . After dropping off Chava and Gron , Zeb decides to stay on the Ghost in order to find more Lasat survivors to guide back to Lira San . It is in this episode that the `` ancient '' names of the sides of The Force are first revealed by Chava , calling the light side the ashla , and the dark side the bogan , and repeated by The Bendu on Atollon in a later episode of Rebels . 30 15 `` The Call '' Mel Zwyer Bill Wolkoff February 10 , 2016 ( 2016 - 02 - 10 ) 215 0.59 The Ghost crew is on a mission to capture a fuel shipment from the Mining Guild to the Empire , in order to restock the Rebel fleet 's own dwindling supplies . While travelling to the Guild 's asteroid refinery , the Ghost encounters a flock of purrgil , space - travelling creatures whom Hera considers dangerous . However , Ezra manages to establish contact with them through the Force and learns that his crew and the purrgil actually pursue the same basic goal , if for slightly differing priorities . Upon reaching the Mining Guild base , the crew finds the Mining Guild attempting to exterminate the purrgil . Kanan decides to raid the base , steal the shipment , and then destroy the base by igniting the rest of the fuel . However , Ezra stops him when he realizes that the purrgil also need the fuel . When it appears as if the Mining Guild forces will overwhelm the crew , the purrgil arrive and attack the Mining Guild , giving the crew the time they need to escape with the fuel . As the Ghost flies away , the crew witnesses the purrgil going into hyperspace , confirming rumors that they are a migratory species capable of faster - than - light travel without technology . 31 16 `` Homecoming '' Bosco Ng Steven Melching February 17 , 2016 ( 2016 - 02 - 17 ) 216 0.51 In order to provide a safe shelter for their fighters , the Rebels plan to capture an Imperial carrier currently stationed above Ryloth , Hera 's home planet . In order to pull the mission off , the Ghost crew contacts Hera 's father , the famed Twi'lek resistance fighter Cham Syndulla . However , Cham desires to destroy the carrier as a demonstration of power , and only grudgingly agrees to capture it . Hera later tells Ezra that she and her father are not on the best of terms , as Hera believes Cham is obsessed with the Twi'lek Resistance while Cham believes Hera 's faith in the Rebellion is misguided . Piloting a captured TIE Bomber , Hera successfully infiltrates the crew and Cham 's team into the carrier , but Cham 's team betrays them and moves to destroy the carrier . Ezra uses a Jedi mind trick on the captain to have the crew abandon ship while Zeb and Sabine subdue Cham 's men . Hera manages to convince Cham to help her , and they destroy a pursuing Imperial cruiser , achieving the demonstration Cham wanted . After adding the carrier to the Rebel fleet , Hera and Cham reconcile their relationship before parting ways . 32 17 `` The Honorable Ones '' Brad Rau Kevin Hopps February 24 , 2016 ( 2016 - 02 - 24 ) 217 0.56 The Ghost crew receives a tip about Imperial activity around the planet Geonosis and go to investigate only to find the planet completely devoid of life and evidence of a large weapon having been constructed in orbit . When the crew boards one of the abandoned construction modules , they are ambushed by Agent Kallus . Most of the crew is able to escape back to the ship , but Zeb is forced to take an escape pod . Kallus pursues Zeb into the pod , which gets damaged during their struggle and the pair crash land on one of Geonosis ' icy moons . Kallus ' leg is injured in the crash , and he and Zeb are forced to work together to survive by fending off hostile monsters and climbing out of the cave they are trapped in . During this , Kallus admits to Zeb that he respects Lasats as warriors , but dislikes them due to his first squad being wiped out by a Lasat . He also reveals he did not agree with the Empire 's decision to exterminate the Lasats and that the Bo Rifle he claimed to have stolen from a dead Lasat Honour Guard was actually given to him by the guard after defeating him in an honourable duel . Upon reaching the surface , they activate their emergency transponder . The Ghost arrives to rescue Zeb shortly after . Kallus wishes to take his chances and wait for Imperial rescue rather than be a Rebel prisoner , and both he and Zeb part ways with a newfound respect for each other . Returning to his Star Destroyer , Kallus is greeted rather coldly , even by Imperial standards , and the episode concludes with him sitting in his quarters , deep in thought . 33 18 `` Shroud of Darkness '' Saul Ruiz Henry Gilroy March 2 , 2016 ( 2016 - 03 - 02 ) 218 0.68 Ezra and Kanan , after facing off with the Inquisitors again , decide it is not safe for them to be around the Rebels while they are being targeted by the Empire , and decide to get advice from Ahsoka . On her advice , the three set out for the Jedi Temple on Lothal , where each have a separate vision ; Ezra , of Master Yoda , Kanan , of the Temple Guard who is testing him , and Ahsoka , of Anakin / Vader . As the Inquisitors track the group to the temple and force their way inside , Ezra is told by Yoda to `` find Malachor '' , Kanan is warned by the Guard , who reveals himself as the former Grand Inquisitor , to beware Ezra 's temptation of the Dark Side , dubbing Kanan the official rank of Jedi Knight , a rank he was never able to achieve due to the execution of Order 66 and the extermination of the Jedi Order . During her vision , Ahsoka faces her guilt over not being present during the fall of the Jedi , while also accepting the fact that her former master , Anakin Skywalker , has become the Sith Lord Darth Vader . The three escape as the shades of the Temple Guards hold off the Inquisitors . Vader and the Empire 's forces arrive at the Temple , as Ahsoka informs Ezra that Malachor is not a person , but a place . 34 19 `` The Forgotten Droid '' Mel Zwyer Matt Michnovetz March 16 , 2016 ( 2016 - 03 - 16 ) 219 0.58 While on a Ghost crew mission to steal fuel , Chopper steals a replacement strut for his original leg . Chopper is separated from the Ghost crew and finds himself stranded on an Imperial freighter . He is eventually discovered by the ship 's inventory droid , AP - 5 , but does not report him upon finding out that Chopper is a veteran of the Clone Wars , just like him . AP - 5 complains to Chopper that the Empire does not appreciate his previous role as a strategist , and the freighter crew constantly mistreats him . Chopper removes AP - 5 's restraining bolt , and the two work together to trap the crew in the cargo hold and detach it from the ship . Chopper makes contact with the Ghost , and AP - 5 warns them that the Empire knows their destination and has set up a trap . AP - 5 is shot by the freighter captain as he transmits new coordinates , but the Ghost crew manages to repair him by using parts from the leg Chopper stole . 35 20 `` The Mystery of Chopper Base '' Bosco Ng Steven Melching March 23 , 2016 ( 2016 - 03 - 23 ) 220 0.53 After finally finding a planet that is safe from the Empire , the Rebel fleet lands to set up their base . However , one of their scouts goes missing after setting up a sensor beacon . Sabine and Rex go to investigate when they are attacked by a swarm of Krykna spiders . Sabine is rescued by the Ghost crew , but Rex is captured by the spiders . The crew follows them and rescues Rex , but can not escape upon finding that the spiders have trapped the Ghost with a web . Sabine discovers that the spiders can not go near the sensor beacons they had set up , and uses one to ward them away while the rest of the crew cuts the web and escapes . Back at the base , instead of abandoning the planet , the Rebels use their sensor beacons as a makeshift barrier to keep the spiders away . Ezra , Kanan , and Ahsoka decide to head for Malachor to find a way to deal with the Inquisitors . 36 37 21 22 `` Twilight of the Apprentice '' Dave Filoni Dave Filoni & Simon Kinberg & Steven Melching March 30 , 2016 ( 2016 - 03 - 30 ) 221 222 0.69 Ahsoka , Ezra , Kanan and Chopper arrive on Malachor -- a Sith world long forbidden to the Jedi -- in search of knowledge , discovering a cavern containing a Sith Temple amid the site of an ancient battlefield between Sith and Jedi who used cross guard lightsabers . They soon are attacked by a new Inquisitor , the Eighth Brother , who is hunting a mysterious hermit calling himself `` Old Master . '' When Ezra encounters the hermit , he reveals himself to be Maul ( Sam Witwer ) and offers to help Ezra get into the Temple , aiding him in recovering a Sith holocron . When the other Inquisitors arrive and alert Darth Vader of their presence , Ezra convinces the group to work together in spite of Kanan 's fears that Maul is corrupting his student , allowing them to finally kill the three Inquisitors . However , Maul soon betrays the group and blinds Kanan with his lightsaber , revealing his true intentions of making Ezra his apprentice . Although sightless , Kanan dons the mask of a fallen Jedi Temple Guard and manages to throw Maul from the top of the temple . Ahsoka finally faces Darth Vader -- who has cornered Ezra and destroyed his lightsaber -- and comes to terms with his identity as Anakin Skywalker as she engages him in a duel , while Kanan and Ezra remove the Sith Holocron . Unable to abandon her old Master , Ahsoka stays within the crumbling temple and stalls Vader while Ezra , Kanan , and Chopper flee the planet and reunite with the Ghost crew . Maul flees Malachor while Vader , who survived the destruction of the temple , walks away as a convor watches from above . As the Ghost crew tries to cope with their losses , Ezra continues to meditate on the Sith Holocron and finally succeeds in opening it .