Jack Thornton is a laid back country boy . Jack is the son of Mountie Thomas Thornton and his wife Charlotte Thornton . Jack has a younger brother , Tom ( named after his father ) . As a Mountie and a man of stout character and integrity , he often finds himself protecting and saving people . In season 1 's `` A Telling Silence , '' Jack finds a basset hound whom he names Rip ( after Rip Van Winkle ) and takes home with him . A source of comfort and companion in the small town , Jack often goes to Rip when times in his life are difficult . In season 2 's `` With All My Heart , '' Rip , who 's afraid of thunder , hides in the mine shafts during a storm . Jack and Elizabeth search for him ; in their search , their relationship grows stronger . Upon his first meeting of Elizabeth , he developed an instant dislike and it appeared she irritated him . However , he grew to like and then fall madly and completely in love with her over time . In `` Rules of Engagement '' ( S. 1 ) , it is revealed that Jack was briefly engaged to Rosemary LeVeaux when she comes looking for him . However , they have both changed and realize that they can not have a relationship as they once did ever again . In `` Prelude to a Kiss '' ( S. 1 ) , Jack found out that Elizabeth may be leaving Coal Valley . Taking her on a walk and giving her a framed picture of them that he had sketched , he asks her not to leave Coal Valley and tells her , `` You 're the one , you 're the only one . '' She replied that she was `` not going anywhere '' , Coal Valley was where she belonged before they share a kiss . In season 2 , Elizabeth and Jack share a hot - and - cold relationship until the finale , `` With All My Heart . '' They both admit that they love each other and share another kiss . Jack 's brother , Tom , is introduced season 2 's `` Trials of the Heart , '' and their rocky relationship continues until `` Coming Together , Coming Apart . '' Jack gently reminds his younger brother how their father was so proud of him , but he would n't be proud of the way he was currently living . Both in tears , Jack tells his younger brother that he believes in him and that he can turn his life around . More recently , Jack has become good friends with the sawmill operator , Lee Coulter . In season 3 , Jack begins the new year knowing that Elizabeth only has eyes for him and that her relationship with Charles is over for good . In `` Hearts In Question , '' Jack 's mother Charlotte shows up unexpectedly . She meets Elizabeth and is suspicious of her , but through staying her sees Elizabeth for who she really is : a trustworthy , dedicated teacher . In the season finale , `` Prayers From The Heart , '' Jack is injured in a flood . But he miraculously recovers in time to serve as Lee 's best man at his wedding .