Chris Sarandon ( speaking voice ) and Danny Elfman ( singing voice ) as Jack Skellington , a skeleton known as the `` Pumpkin King '' of Halloween Town . He owns a ghost dog named Zero , who has a small , glowing jack - o ' - lantern nose . Danny Elfman also voices Barrel , one of the trick - or - treaters working for Oogie Boogie . Elfman was initially cast as Jack 's singing voice and , after the songs were recorded , Sarandon was cast to match Elfman 's voice style . Catherine O'Hara as Sally , a rag doll - like creation of Finklestein , and the growing love interest of Jack . She is an amateur toxicologist that uses various types of poison to liberate herself from the captivity of Finklestein . She 's also psychic and has premonitions when anything bad is about to happen . O'Hara also voices Shock , one of the trick - or - treaters working for Oogie Boogie . She had previously co-starred in Burton 's Beetlejuice ( 1988 ) . William Hickey as Doctor Finklestein , a mad scientist , and the `` father '' of Sally . He is listed in the credits only as `` Evil Scientist '' and is only mentioned by name once in the film . Glenn Shadix as Mayor of Halloween Town , an enthusiastic leader who conducts town meetings . His wild mood swings from happy to distraught cause his head to spin between a `` happy '' and `` sad '' face ; where some career politicians are figuratively two - faced , the Mayor is literally so . Burton and Shadix previously worked on Beetlejuice . Ken Page as Oogie Boogie , a villainous bogeyman in Halloween Town , who has a passion for gambling . Ed Ivory as Santa Claus , the leader of Christmas Town . Santa Claus is responsible for the annual celebration of Christmas , at which time he delivers presents to children around the world . Ivory also does the brief narration at the start of the film . Paul Reubens as Lock , one of the trick - or - treaters working for Oogie Boogie . Reubens and Burton previously worked on Pee - wee 's Big Adventure ( 1985 ) and Batman Returns ( 1992 ) .