1 : Germany 's Jews are ordered to wear yellow stars for identification . 2 : The Destroyers for Bases Agreement is completed . Britain obtains 50 destroyers in exchange for giving the United States land grants in various British possessions for the establishment of US naval and air bases , on ninety - nine - year rent - free leases on bases in the Bahamas , Antigua , St. Lucia , Trinidad , Jamaica , and British Guiana . 3 : Hitler postpones the invasion of Britain , as the Luftwaffe fails to break the British defenses . However , fears of the forthcoming invasion continue to haunt Britain . 6 : King Carol abdicates the Romanian throne in favour of his son Michael while control of the government is taken by Marshal Antonescu . 7 : In one of the major misjudgements of the war , the Luftwaffe shifts its focus to London , away from the RAF airfields . Success may be measured only in the estimated 2,000 civilian dead . Other British cities are hit . The Blitz starts 9 : During the Western Desert Campaign , Italian colonial forces in Libya under General Mario Berti launch the invasion of Egypt . The first objective is to advance from defensive positions within Libya to the border with Egypt . : Tel Aviv in the British Mandate of Palestine is bombed by Italian aircraft causing 137 deaths . 10 : Operation Sea Lion is now set for 24 September . : The Italian Air Corps is formed to fight in the Battle of Britain . 13 : After re-taking Fort Capuzzo just inside Libya , Italian colonial forces cross the border and advance into Egypt . The Italians take the small port of Sollum , but the only resistance to the invasion is a light British screening force which withdraws as the Italians advance . 14 : Operation Sea Lion is postponed until 27 September , the last day of the month with suitable tides for the invasion . 15 : Massive German bombing flights on English cities ; most are driven off . The RAF begins to claim victory in the Battle of Britain . 16 : Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 introduces the first peacetime conscription ( this time for men between 21 and 35 ) in United States history . The Italian invasion of Egypt comes to a halt when approximately five Italian divisions set up defensively in a series of armed camps after advancing about 95 km ( 59 mi ) to Sidi Barrani . The Italians never approach the main British positions at Mersa Matruh . 17 : Decoded messages now reveal that Hitler has postponed Operation Sea Lion until further notice . 18 : Radio Belgique , a French and Dutch language radio service of the BBC , begins broadcasting to occupied Belgium from its base in London . 22 : Heavy convoy losses to U-boats in the Atlantic . The Japanese occupy French Indochina ; local French administrators become only figurehead authorities . 23 : Free French and British forces attempt a landing at Dakar , French West Africa ; Vichy French naval forces open fire sporadically for two days , and the expedition is called back . 24 : Berlin suffers a large bombing raid by the RAF . : In response to Dakar , the Vichy French Air Force bombs Gibraltar for the first time since 18 July . 25 : Vichy French aircraft return to Gibraltar for a second day of bombings . : Japanese 5th Division march into Hanoi , French Indochina . 27 : The Tripartite Pact is signed in Berlin by Germany , Italy , and Japan , promising mutual aid . An informal name , `` Axis '' , emerges . 28 : Vidkun Quisling becomes head of state in Norway .