Attempts in the Missouri General Assembly to enact some form of statewide smoking ban have failed every year since 2008 , except for 2015 , when one was not even introduced : Bills to ban smoking statewide by Senator Joan Bray before the Missouri Senate in 2008 , 2009 , and 2010 and by Rep. Walt Bivens before the Missouri House of Representatives in 2010 all failed without receiving a committee hearing . In 2009 , a proposal by Rep. Joe Fallert to amend the Constitution of Missouri to ban smoking statewide and a bill by Rep. Jill Schupp proposing . 1 % a tax on all non-smoke - free businesses also both failed this way . In 2011 , a bill by Rep. Jill Schupp received a hearing before a House committee , but the committee did not put it up for a vote . In 2012 , respective bills by Rep. Schupp and Sen. Maria Chappelle - Nadal to ban smoking statewide both failed without receiving a committee hearing , while a bill by Rep. Melissa Leach to undo the Court of Appeals ' 2009 smoking ban decision underwent a committee hearing , though no vote was held . In 2013 , respective bills by Rep. Schupp and Sen. Chapelle - Nadal to ban smoking statewide both failed without even being referred to a committee , while a bill by Rep. Bill Otto to prohibit localities from banning smoking in riverboat casinos underwent a committee hearing but without a vote , and a bill by Rep. Kathie Conway to deprive localities banning smoking of their sales and property tax revenue from smoking - banned private businesses was passed by the House Local Government Committee , but did not advance to a vote before the full House of Representatives . In 2014 , respective bills by Reps . Schupp and Courtney Curtis and Sen. Chapelle - Nadal to ban smoking statewide all failed without a committee hearing , while a bill by Rep. Conway to deprive localities banning smoking of their sales and property tax revenue from smoking - banned private businesses was passed by the House Local Government Committee , but did not advance to a vote before the full House of Representatives . For 2013 , the periodic `` Freedom in the 50 States '' study prepared by the Mercatus Center at George Mason University ranked Missouri first in the nation in tobacco freedom ( also # 3 for alcohol freedom and # 7 for freedom overall ) . As of December 2013 , Missouri has the lowest cigarette excise taxes in the United States , at 17 cents per pack , and the state electorate previously voted in 2002 , 2006 , and 2012 to keep it that way . According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , in 2012 Missouri had the seventh highest percentage of adult smokers among U.S. states , at 25 % . In both January 2011 and January 2013 , the Missouri House of Representatives voted to continue allowing smoking in its half of the Missouri State Capitol . In October 2008 , a statewide survey by the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services found that only 27.5 % of Missourians support a statewide ban on smoking in all bars and cocktail lounges . Missouri also has one of the most permissive approaches to alcohol in the United States ( see Alcohol laws of Missouri ) . As detailed below , of the 961 cities in Missouri , only 36 ( 3.7 % ) have enacted comprehensive smoking bans , though all of Missouri 's municipalities exceeding 100,000 residents have adopted comprehensive no smoking ordinances . St. Louis County bans smoking in many places , though exempting bars and casinos and is the lone county in the state with smoking provisions of any kind . Nine cities and one county have rejected a smoking ban in some manner , and eight other municipalities have provided exceptions for workplaces and / or bars and / or restaurants . On April 5 , 2011 , Cape Girardeau became one of the few cities in the United States ever to have rejected a smoking ban in a public vote .