He has not ever permitted her to exercise her inalienable right to the elective franchise . He has compelled her to submit to laws , in the formation of which she had no voice . He has withheld her from rights which are given to the most ignorant and degraded men -- both natives and foreigners . Having deprived her of this first right as a citizen , the elective franchise , thereby leaving her without representation in the halls of legislation , he has oppressed her on all sides . He has made her , if married , in the eye of the law , civilly dead . He has taken from her all right in property , even to the wages she earns . He has made her morally , an irresponsible being , as she can commit many crimes with impunity , provided they be done in the presence of her husband . In the covenant of marriage , she is compelled to promise obedience to her husband , he becoming , to all intents and purposes , her master -- the law giving him power to deprive her of her liberty , and to administer chastisement . He has so framed the laws of divorce , as to what shall be the proper causes of divorce , in case of separation , to whom the guardianship of the children shall be given ; as to be wholly regardless of the happiness of the women -- the law , in all cases , going upon a false supposition of the supremacy of a man , and giving all power into his hands . After depriving her of all rights as a married woman , if single and the owner of property , he has taxed her to support a government which recognizes her only when her property can be made profitable to it . He has monopolized nearly all the profitable employments , and from those she is permitted to follow , she receives but a scanty remuneration . He closes against her all the avenues to wealth and distinction , which he considers most honorable to himself . As a teacher of theology , medicine , or law , she is not known . He has denied her the facilities for obtaining a thorough education -- all colleges being closed against her . He allows her in church , as well as State , but a subordinate position , claiming Apostolic authority for her exclusion from the ministry , and , with some exceptions , from any public participation in the affairs of the Church . He has created a false public sentiment by giving to the world a different code of morals for men and women , by which moral delinquencies which exclude women from society , are not only tolerated but deemed of little account in man . He has usurped the prerogative of Jehovah himself , claiming it as his right to assign for her a sphere of action , when that belongs to her conscience and her God . He has endeavored , in every way that he could to destroy her confidence in her own powers , to lessen her self - respect , and to make her willing to lead a dependent and abject life .