Benign prostatic hyperplasia , also known as prostate enlargement . Cushing 's disease -- Physiopathology of hyperplasia of adrenal cortex due to increased circulating level of ACTH ( adrenocorticotropic hormone ) . Congenital adrenal hyperplasia -- Inherited disorder of gland ( adrenal ) . Endometrial hyperplasia -- Hyperproliferation of the endometrium , usually in response to unopposed estrogen stimulation in the setting of polycystic ovary syndrome or exogenous administration of hormones . Atypical endometrial hyperplasia may represent an early neoplastic process which can lead to endometrial adenocarcinoma . The development of endometrial adenocarcinoma from endometrial hyperplasia is a typical example of how the effects of pathologic hyperplasia can lead to neoplasia , and females who exhibit hyperplasia of the endometrium are indeed more likely to develop cancer of these cells . Hemihyperplasia when only half ( or one side ) of the body is affected , sometimes generating limbs of different lengths . Hyperplasia of the breast -- `` Hyperplastic '' lesions of the breast include usual ductal hyperplasia , a focal expansion of the number of cells in a terminal breast duct , and atypical ductal hyperplasia , in which a more abnormal pattern of growth is seen , and which is associated with an increased risk of developing breast cancer . Intimal hyperplasia -- The thickening of the tunica intima of a blood vessel as a complication of a reconstruction procedure or endarterectomy . Intimal hyperplasia is the universal response of a vessel to injury and is an important reason of late bypass graft failure , particularly in vein and synthetic vascular grafts . Focal epithelial hyperplasia ( also known as Heck 's disease ) -- This is a wart - like growth in the mucous tissues of the mouth or , rarely , throat that is caused by certain sub-types of the human papillomavirus ( HPV ) . Heck 's disease has not been known to cause cancer . Sebaceous hyperplasia -- In this condition , small yellowish growths develop on the skin , usually on the face . This condition is neither contagious nor dangerous . Compensatory liver hyperplasia -- The liver undergoes cellular division after acute injury , resulting in new cells that restore liver function back to baseline . Approximately 75 % of the liver can be acutely damaged or resected with seemingly full regeneration through hepatocyte division , i.e. , hyperplasia . This is what makes living - donor liver transplants possible .