No . Official English title Original Japanese title Original air date English air date 151 `` Sabertooth '' `` Seibātūsu '' ( 剣 咬 の 虎 ( セイバー トゥース ) ) October 6 , 2012 November 17 , 2015 The Legion Platoon is tasked by Zentopia 's archbishop to retrieve the missing pieces of the Infinity Clock and seal them again . Before embarking on their mission , they visit Fairy Tail and make amends with the guild for their previous hostility against them . It is later discovered that Fairy Tail has lost their title as the strongest guild in Fiore to the Saber Tooth guild over the past seven years . Two of the strongest wizards in the guild include a pair of Dragon Slayers named Sting and Rogue , who are obsessed with fighting Natsu and Gajeel , respectively . Meanwhile , Makarov brings Gildarts to their abandoned guildhall and shows him Lumen Histoire , a light that Makarov says is Fairy Tail 's greatest secret . Makarov then tells Gildarts that he has been chosen to become the next master of Fairy Tail . 152 `` And So We Aim for the Top '' `` Soshite Ore - tachi wa Chōjō o Mezasu '' ( そして オレ たち は 顶 上 を 目指す ) October 13 , 2012 November 24 , 2015 Natsu and his friends discover that a power gap has developed between them and the rest of the guild members who were not on Tenrou Island . The group meets with Poluchka for medicine to strengthen their magic , but are unsuccessful . Wendy recognizes Poluchka 's voice and scent as those of Grandine , the dragon who raised her . Poluchka reveals herself as the Edolas counterpart of Grandine , and gives Wendy written instructions for two advanced spells that Grandine failed to teach her . Meanwhile , Makarov announces Gildarts ' succession as master to the rest of the guild , only to find he has gone on a journey , leaving a letter of resignation behind . In the letter , Gildarts reinstates Laxus into the guild , returns mastership to Makarov , and tells him to make Fairy Tail the strongest guild in Fiore again . Romeo suggests they participate in the Grand Magic Games , an annual festival designed to determine the guild rankings in Fiore . 153 `` Song of the Stars '' `` Hoshiboshi no Uta '' ( 星々 の 歌 ) October 20 , 2012 December 1 , 2015 With the Grand Magic Games occurring in three months time , Natsu and his friends train at a beach resort . On their second day of training , Virgo appears and tells the wizards that the Celestial Spirit World is in danger of destruction . When the wizards arrive , they instead find a surprise party held by the Celestial Spirit King celebrating their return from Sirius Island after seven years . They spend the day in the spirit world partying with the spirits . Before they leave , however , Virgo informs them that one day in the spirit world equals three months in the human world , and they find the Grand Magic Games are upon them . 154 `` For All the Time We Missed Each Other '' `` Surechigatta Jikan no Bun dake '' ( すれ 违 っ た 时间 の 分 だけ ) October 27 , 2012 December 8 , 2015 While mulling over their lost training time , the Fairy Tail wizards receive a message via carrier pigeon requesting a private meeting in the forest nearby . There they meet a runaway Jellal , Ultear , and Merudy , who have formed their own guild , Crime Sorcière , to defeat Zeref and any dark guilds that try to use his power . The three ask Fairy Tail for their help in determining the source of a magical anomaly similar to Zeref 's magic that they have sensed around the Grand Magic Games arena , Domus Flau . In exchange , Ultear uses her magic to invoke their Second Origin in order to double their magic power . As the others undergo the painful process of awakening their Second Origin , Erza talks with Jellal over his regained memories . The two nearly kiss , but Jellal decides that he and Erza can not be together and lies to her that he has a fiancée . Erza quickly picks up on this and respects his decision , seeing Crime Sorcière off as they leave . 155 `` Crocus , the Flower - Blooming Capital '' `` Hanasaku Miyako : Kurokkasu '' ( 花 笑 く 都 ・ クロッカス ) November 3 , 2012 December 15 , 2015 Natsu , Lucy , Gray , Erza , and Wendy are chosen to represent their guild in the Grand Magic Games , which are to be held in Fiore 's capital , Crocus . As they tour the city , Natsu and Happy encounter the twin dragon slayers , Sting and Rogue , who mock Natsu for not being able to kill Acnologia , and boast of becoming true dragon slayers by killing the dragons who raised them . At midnight , Fairy Tail and the other participating guilds are put through a preliminary event -- a race through a massive floating labyrinth -- designed to narrow the number of participating guilds down to eight teams . 156 `` Sky Labyrinth '' `` Sukai Rabirinsu '' ( 空中 迷宮 ( スカイ ラビリンス ) ) November 10 , 2012 December 22 , 2015 Natsu 's team notices that Wendy has gone missing , so Elfman replaces her to keep them from being eliminated . As they make their way through the enchanted labyrinth , the five encounter various other guilds and steal the maps made by the other guilds to better navigate the maze . They manage to reach the end of the maze and pass the elimination round , confident they have arrived first , only to discover they have barely taken last place . Meanwhile , Happy , Lisanna , and the rest of the guild search for Wendy and Carla . They eventually find the two in the garden of the king 's palace , Mercurius , with their magic power depleted . 157 `` New Guild '' `` Shinki Girudo '' ( 新 规 ギルド ) November 17 , 2012 December 29 , 2015 Wendy 's body is weakened as a result of losing her magic power . As Poluchka helps her recover , she formally requests Elfman to take her place in the Grand Magic Games . Fairy Tail steps into the arena with a negative audience reception , but they are bolstered by their guild mates and the spirit of Mavis , whom only the Fairy Tail guild members can see . The next four participating teams are revealed to be Quatro Cerberus , Mermaid Heel , Blue Pegasus , and Lamia Scale . Following them is Raven Tail , a former dark guild led by Makarov 's son Ivan , who confess to attacking Wendy and Carla . To everyone 's shock , the next team is revealed to be a second team from Fairy Tail composed of Gajeel , Juvia , Mirajane , Laxus , and Jellal ( disguised as Mystogan to help investigate the arena ) . The final guild to be announced is Saber Tooth , much to the joy of the audience . With all eight teams announced , they each send out one member to participate in the first contest of the games , with Gray and Juvia representing their teams . 158 `` Night of Shooting Stars '' `` Hoshi Furu Yoru ni '' ( 星 降 ル 夜 ニ ) November 24 , 2012 January 5 , 2016 The games ' first contest , `` Hidden '' , requires the eight participants to score points by finding and attacking each other in a virtual city filled with copies of themselves . Raven Tail member Nalpudding repeatedly targets Gray , who scores last place in the contest while Saber Tooth 's Rufus scores first by using his Memory - Make magic to attack all the other participants at once . Humiliated , Gray swears revenge against Raven Tail and Saber Tooth . Afterwards , Lucy is chosen to fight Raven Tail member Flare in the tournament 's first battle round . 159 `` Lucy vs. Flare '' `` Rūshii vs. Furea '' ( ルーシィ vs. フレア ) December 1 , 2012 January 12 , 2016 Lucy displays tremendous skill in her battle against Flare by being able to summon two spirits simultaneously . As Lucy gains the upper hand , Flare cheats by using her magic hair to hold Alzack and Bisca 's daughter Asuka as a hostage , blackmailing Lucy into not fighting back to keep her from harming Asuka . As Lucy tearfully speaks of Asuka 's danger , Natsu is able to hear it and rushes to Asuka to incinerate Flare 's hair , allowing Lucy to counterattack with her Urano Metoria spell in combination with Gemini . However , before the spell fully activates , Flare 's teammate Obra nullifies Lucy 's magic , causing her to collapse and lose the match . 160 `` Portent '' `` Kyōzui '' ( 凶 瑞 ) December 8 , 2012 January 19 , 2016 Blue Pegasus ' Ren defeats Mermaid Heel 's Araña during the games ' second match , while Saber Tooth 's Orga effortlessly defeats Quatro Cerberus ' War Cry in the third match . For the day 's fourth and final match , Jellal is pitted against Lamia Scale 's Jura , intending to avenge the humiliated Fairy Tail members . He mimics Mystogan 's magic to keep up his disguise , but he finds it ineffective to use against Jura and is forced to use his own magic instead . Before he can cast a spell that will expose his true identity , Ultear uses Merudy 's sensory to force Jellal into submission . Meanwhile , the hospitalized Carla awakens after having a troubling premonition of the future . 161 `` Chariots '' `` Chariotto '' ( 战 车 ( チャリオット ) ) December 15 , 2012 January 26 , 2016 Fairy Tail is undaunted by their poor performance on the first day . As the guild celebrates , they are visited and taunted by Bacchus , Erza 's rival from Quatro Cerberus , who has come to replace War Cry . Carla relays her premonition to Poluchka , saying that she saw Mercurius collapsing around what appeared to be a tearfully singing Lucy . The second day of the tournament begins with a footrace atop a train of moving chariots , causing the participants Natsu , Gajeel , and Sting to suffer from motion sickness as a side effect of their Dragon Slayer magic . As Natsu and Gajeel force themselves forward , Sting inquires about their determination to which Natsu responds that it is as a result of the strength of Fairy Tail 's bonds . Sting eventually throws the race while Natsu and Gajeel manage to finish as sixth and seventh placers , respectively , earning Fairy Tail the audience 's respect . 162 `` Elfman vs. Bacchus '' `` Erufuman vs. Bakkasu '' ( エルフマン vs. バッカス ) December 22 , 2012 September 1 , 2015 Due to a miscomunnication between the king and his knight Arcadios , Elfman is chosen as Bacchus ' opponent instead of Erza . Before the match commences , the two opponents make a wager : if Bacchus wins , he will court Elfman 's sisters , and if Elfman wins , Bacchus ' team name will be changed to `` Quatro Puppy '' for the rest of the games . Bacchus ruthlessly attacks Elfman with his bare palms , who manages to damage Bacchus with his defensive Lizardman transformation . Elfman manages to outlast Bacchus as he exhausts himself , winning the match and forcing Bacchus ' team to be renamed . Meanwhile , Natsu finds Wendy , Carla , and Poluchka being kidnapped by a group of masked men . Upon being caught , the men claim they were hired to kidnap Lucy by Raven Tail . They are soon revealed to have actually been sent by Arcadios , who intends to sow discord between the guilds as he plots to use Lucy for his `` Eclipse Project '' . 163 `` Mirajane vs. Jenny '' `` Mirajēn vs. Jenī '' ( ミラ ジェーン vs. ジェニー ) January 5 , 2013 September 1 , 2015 The second day of the Grand Magic Games continues , with Mirajane of Fairy Tail Team B fighting against Jenny Realight of Team Blue Pegasus . Since the two competitors are well - known for being magazine models , their battle consists almost entirely of a fashion showdown , much to the pleasure of the audience . Eventually as the showdown becomes redundant , Jenny proposes a wager : the loser must pose nude for the Sorcerer Magazine , which Mirajane accepts . Jenny then transforms into her battle armor while Mirajane shifts into her Satan Soul `` Sitri '' form and easily defeats Jenny . The final match of the day is announced , with Kagura Mikazuchi of Mermaid Heel pitted against Yukino Aguria of Saber Tooth . Yukino proposes to Kagura that they wager their lives on their battle . Meanwhile , Arcadios is confronted by Darton , the kingdom 's defense minister , about his `` Eclipse Project '' . 164 `` Kagura vs. Yukino '' `` Kagura vs. Yukino '' ( カグラ vs. ユキノ ) January 12 , 2013 September 1 , 2015 Yukino is revealed to be a celestial spirit wizard when she summons Libra and Pisces to attack Kagura . Using her gravity - altering magic , Kagura defeats the two spirits , thus forcing Yukino to use a Gatekey that summons Ophiuchus , which is regarded as the strongest among the Celestial Spirits . However , Kagura slays Ophiuchus with her sword still sheathed and easily defeats Yukino . Later , Jellal discusses the fact that he has not sensed the evil power similar to Zeref 's even though the second day of the Grand Magic Games has ended . Erza reunites with Milliana , who is revealed to be a member of Mermaid Heel . Meanwhile , Saber Tooth 's master Jiemma is dissatisfied with his guild 's performance . Though Sting is given another chance , Jiemma humiliates Yukino for her failure . 165 `` Hatred at Nightfall '' `` Urami wa Yoru no Tobari ni Tsutsumarete '' ( 怨み は 夜 の 帐 に 包 まれ て ) January 19 , 2013 September 1 , 2015 After Yukino is expelled from Saber Tooth , she offers her two golden Gatekeys to Lucy to complete the latter 's collection of the Zodiac Gatekeys , stating that when the twelve Zodiac Gatekeys are all gathered , a gateway that changes the world will open ; however , Lucy turns down the offer . Meanwhile , Milliana tells Erza that Kagura 's sword , Archenemy , is intended to kill Jellal , and that she and Kagura share the same resentment towards Jellal . Natsu and Happy run after Yukino in an attempt to apologize ; however , Natsu realizes that Yukino had been expelled , and infiltrates the Crocus Garden to fight Jiemma . 166 `` Pandemonium '' `` Pandemoniumu '' ( 伏魔殿 ( パンデモニウム ) ) January 26 , 2013 September 1 , 2015 After Natsu punches out Dobengal , the guild member summoned to fight him , he and Jiemma engage in a duel . However , the guild master 's daughter Minerva appears , ends their duel and , taking Happy hostage , convinces Natsu to settle their dispute in the Grand Magic Games . As Natsu leaves , he states that Saber Tooth will never surpass Fairy Tail because they care for their friends , words that are echoed by Rogue , while Sting is left in awe at Natsu 's strength . The following day as the Grand Magic Games continue , an event called `` Pandemonium '' begins . It involves the participants entering a magical citadel filled with 100 monsters of varying strengths and individually doing battle with any number of monsters they choose . Representing Fairy Tail Team A , Erza requests the 100 monsters as her opponents . 167 `` 100 Against 1 '' `` Hyaku tai Ichi '' ( 100 対 1 ) February 2 , 2013 September 1 , 2015 Erza kills the 100 monsters using various types of armor to match their strength and weaknesses . As a result , the crowd praises Fairy Tail , and the guild is awarded with 10 points . Moreover , the game officials decided to determine the ranks of the remaining participants by means of a device called `` Magic Power Finder '' ( sometimes abbreviated as MPF ) . Using this tool , participants must attack it with their magic power , which will , in turn , calculate and display their equivalent scores depending on the extent of power used . In the end , Cana of Fairy Tail Team B dominates the event by using the Fairy Glitter spell lent to her by Mavis , much to Makarov 's surprise . With Cana 's victory , Fairy Tail Team B receives 8 points , and the audience began to burst once more into a resounding swarm of cheers and claps due to the finish of the two Fairy Tail teams . Meanwhile , the Raven Tail team somehow managed to get an insider information regarding the battle matchups for the day , so the masked leader Alexei tells his subordinates Flare , Obra , Nalpudding , and Kurohebi that it 's about time to proceed with their true mission . 168 `` Laxus vs. Alexei '' `` Rakusasu vs. Arekusei '' ( ラクサス vs. アレクセイ ) February 9 , 2013 September 1 , 2015 In the battle portion of the Grand Magic Games ' third day , Milliana of Mermaid Heel beats Semmes of Quatro Puppy while Saber Tooth 's Rufus swiftly defeats Blue Pegasus ' Eve . For the third match , Laxus of Fairy Tail Team B is chosen to battle against Alexei of Team Raven Tail . Since the opponent is from a suspicious guild , the Fairy Tail members take extra precautions by watching the actions of Ivan Dreyar as well as the other four Raven Tail members . However , as the match commences , the spectators are shocked to see Laxus being beaten by Alexei , although no cautious movements can be seen from the Raven Tail team . It turns out that the two dueling people are just illusions created by Alexei in order for him to have a talk with Laxus . Also , the other Raven Tail members being monitored by Fairy Tail are just lifelike illusions , for in reality they are with Alexei in the battlefield . Alexei reveals himself to be Ivan Dreyar . Unable to interrogate Laxus of the Lumen Histoire 's location , Ivan and the Raven Tail members are forced to fight him . Before their battle begins , Ivan declares that Raven Tail is an anti-Fairy Tail guild . 169 `` Wendy vs. Shelia '' `` Wendi vs. Sheria '' ( ウェンディ vs. シェリア ) February 16 , 2013 September 1 , 2015 After Laxus defeats Ivan and the four Raven Tail elite members , Ivan 's illusions disappear to the shock of everyone in the stadium . The game officials declare Laxus the victor , and Ivan tells him that Lumen Histoire is Fairy Tail 's ' darkness ' . Due to the infraction of the rules , the Raven Tail team is disqualified for the remainder of the Games , and its members are captured by the soldiers . Later , Wendy of Fairy Tail Team A and Sherria Blendy of Team Lamia Scale face off to compete for the final match of the day . As the two exchange attacks , gusts of wind surround the arena since Sherria is revealed to be a Sky God Slayer . Wendy employs an advanced Sky Dragon Slayer attack much to Poluchka 's astonishment , causing Sherria to fall on the ground . Wendy is about to be announced as the winner of the bout when Sherria suddenly stands up with her wounds fully healed . Meanwhile , the Crime Sorcière guild senses the nefarious aura , and Jellal proceeds to the Domus Flau audience , oblivious that he bumped into Doranbolt , who , in turn , wonders what is Mystogan doing in Earthland . 170 `` Small Fists '' `` Chiisana Kobushi '' ( 小さな 拳 ) February 23 , 2013 September 1 , 2015 With Cheria being fully healed and Wendy being almost depleted of magic power , their battle continues , with the former casting a high - level spell towards the latter . However , it seems that Wendy enhances Cheria 's physical strength , causing the attack to gain much force and thus missing Wendy . The two competitors then engage in a hand - to - hand combat , but due to the time limit and neither side is giving up , their battle resulted in a draw , giving both teams with 5 points . Meanwhile , Jellal manages to track the sinister aura among the crowd in the form of a mysterious , hooded person . Jellal is about to confront the aura source , but he is abruptly cornered by Doranbolt , Lahar , and other Rune Knights . Doranbalt then interrogates Jellal , and as his cover was blown , the Rune Knights , as well as Kagura and Milliana glancing nearby , are startled to see the true identity of Mystogan . Yajima convinces the Rune Knights that Mystogan is Jellal 's Edolas counterpart , prompting Lahar to release the fugitive . Meanwhile , Laxus and Makarov have a small conversation regarding Lumen Histoire when Mavis appears and explains that Lumen Histoire is the ' light ' of Fairy Tail . 171 `` Naval Battle '' `` Nabaru Batoru '' ( 海战 ( ナバルバトル ) ) March 2 , 2013 September 1 , 2015 As the jubilant Fairy Tail members celebrate their victories , the other people , such as Sting , Kagura , and Milliana , are contemplating on their own concerns , while Yukino is enlisted as a sergeant under Arcadios ' command . Meanwhile , the fourth day of the competitions comes to a start with an event , `` Naval Battle '' , which involves the participants swimming in a giant water sphere and knocking the other competitors out . After the other participants fall out of the aquatic sphere , a five - minute battle between Lucy and Minerva ensues . However , Minerva quickly attacks Lucy , and she manages to steal the keys of the Celestial Spirit mage . Regardless of this , Lucy refuses to surrender . After hearing Lucy 's intentions , Minerva stops from attacking up to the extent that the five - minute mark was reached . However , Minerva resumes attacking Lucy until the game officials decide to halt the match . The Fairy Tail members snap , and Minerva dangles Lucy out of the sphere while the others rush to her aid . 172 `` A Parfum for You '' `` Kimi ni Sasageru Parufamu '' ( 君 に 捧げる 香り ( パルファム ) ) March 9 , 2013 September 1 , 2015 While Lucy is hospitalized and taken to the infirmary , the Fairy Tail members warn Saber Tooth that they have angered the worst possible guild to do so . Later , Makarov announces that the two Fairy Tail teams must merge as a result of the disqualification of Raven Tail and to compensate for the odd number of teams for the battle round . He also reveals that the new team will have the former Team A 's 35 points to start with . The new Fairy Tail team , consisting of Natsu , Gray , Erza , Gajeel , and Laxus , are well - received as they enter the field . The second part of the tournament begins with a tag battle between Blue Pegasus ' Ichiya and `` Rabbit '' and Quatro Puppy 's Rocker and Bacchus . To everyone 's shock , it is revealed that `` Rabbit '' is actually Nichiya in disguise , and after the Exceed is punched by Bacchus , Ichiya bulks up to defeat the Quatro Puppy opponents , awarding Blue Pegasus with 10 points . 173 `` Battle of Dragon Slayers ! '' `` Batoru obu Doragon Sureiyā '' ( バトル ・ オブ ・ ドラゴン スレイヤー ) March 16 , 2013 September 1 , 2015 Mermaid Heel 's Kagura and Milliana and Lamia Scale 's Lyon and Yuka face off for the second tag battle of the games . The two teams struggle to earn a victory , only to have their battle ending in a draw due to the time limit . For the third and final match of the day , the spectators look on in silence as Natsu and Gajeel of Team Fairy Tail and Sting and Rogue of Team Saber Tooth enter the field . As the battle commences , Sting and Rogue were about to take the initiative when they were suddenly attacked by Natsu and Gajeel . The four mages then exchange attacks ; however , the audience watches in shock as the Fairy Tail Dragon Slayers overpower the Saber Tooth Dragon Slayers . Unable to keep themselves on par with their adversaries , Sting activates ' White Drive ' while Rogue powers up using ' Shadow Drive ' . 174 `` Four Dragons '' `` Yonin no Doragon '' ( 四 人 の 竜 ( ドラゴン ) ) March 23 , 2013 September 1 , 2015 The tag battle continues , with Sting and Rogue beginning to attack Natsu and Gajeel with their powers being increased . After receiving heavy blows from the Saber Tooth Dragon Slayers , Natsu and Gajeel manages to hold them off , thus forcing Sting and Rogue to activate `` Dragon Force '' on their own will , to the shock of the Fairy Tail audience . Sting decides to finish the Fairy Tail Dragon Slayers alone , for he held a promise to his Exceed friend Lector many years ago . As the three mages fight , the tide turns in favor of Sting as he unleashes a powerful attack on Natsu and Gajeel , resulting in the collapse of the arena floor , and after a hand - to - hand combat underground , Sting was seemingly the victor of the match . However , the Fairy Tail duo stands up , comments on Sting 's strength , and argues about his position while attacking , thereby causing Natsu to drag Gajeel on a mining cart and send it away . While Gajeel is left incapacitated due to motion sickness , Natsu challenges the Twin Dragons of Saber Tooth alone , in retribution to what Sting did earlier on them . 175 `` Natsu vs. the Twin Dragons '' `` Natsu vs. Sōryū '' ( ナツ vs. 双竜 ) March 30 , 2013 September 1 , 2015 The tag battle of the Dragon Slayers comes to a close , with Natsu overpowering the combined attacks of Sting and Rogue . The Saber Tooth members watch in dismay , while Jiemma seethes in anger over the defeat of the Twin Dragons , frightening the nearby spectators away . The rest of Fairy Tail celebrates in joy as its team receives 10 points , finally surpassing Team Saber Tooth by a single point . Meanwhile , Gajeel , back to his senses after being dragged by Natsu into a cart earlier , stumbles upon a cave full of dragon skeletons . During that night , Jellal manages to corner the source of the dark aura , standing in disbelief at the identity of the mysterious , hooded person .