No . overall No. in season Title Original air date 76 `` Episode 1 '' 9 July 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 09 ) The judges met the top 50 semi-finalists for bootcamp at Cockatoo Island . As part of Australia 's history as a penal colony , the contestants took part in several challenges and photo shoots relating to different convict themes . After taking part in group interviews with the judges , half of the contestants were eliminated . The elimination was followed by a runway show on a plank and a jailbird photo shoot session . After deliberating one final time , the final 15 were selected , and it was revealed that they would be travelling to Thailand for the next stage of the competition . Featured photographer : Michael Naumoff 77 `` Episode 2 '' 16 July 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 16 ) The 15 finalists arrived in Bangkok and were taken to a Buddhist temple for a meditation lesson before taking part in a styling challenge at the local market , where they were split into teams of five . For the photo shoot , the models were photographed as rich Thai travelers lost in the countryside . Featured photographer : Kane Skennar 78 `` Episode 3 '' 23 July 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 23 ) The remaining models moved into the model mansion and had a lesson on healthy eating with James Duigan , while Ashley was taken to the hospital due to a case of appendicitis . In preparation for an upcoming challenge , the contestants received a message from Candice Swanepoel regarding the importance of body endurance , fitness , and strength in the field of modeling . At the challenge , they were faced with an arduous and grueling obstacle course in which the winner received $2,000 worth of fitness apparel and a years ' supply of health supplements , before being styled as sports luxe athletes for the photo shoot . Special guests : James Duigan , Candice Swanepoel Featured photographer : Justin Ridler 79 `` Episode 4 '' 30 July 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 30 ) The models were driven to Elizabeth Bay House for a lesson on proper etiquette . They later had a red carpet challenge in which they had to face the press , paparazzi , and fans of the show for a mock movie premiere at the Ritz Cinema to win the chance of appearing in a national Nissan Dualis commercial . At the photo shoot , the contestants had to embody a modern interpretation of the 1950s housewife . Special guests : June Dally - Watkins , Rachael Finch Featured photographer : Derek Henderson 80 5 `` Episode 5 '' 6 August 2013 ( 2013 - 08 - 06 ) The models were driven to the Australian Reptile Park in order to overcome their fears by touching the animals , and later had makeovers before walking in front of members of the industry and media , as well as their loved ones . They later arrived at Hyde Park for a vintage Calvin Klein inspired photo shoot . Special guests : Julie Mendezona , Troy Thompson , Thelma McQuillan , Danielle Ragenard Featured photographer : Harold David 81 6 `` Episode 6 '' 13 August 2013 ( 2013 - 08 - 13 ) The contestants arrived at Broken Hill for a lesson on line dancing to learn about teamwork , and later took part in a painting challenge . Conflict escalated after a paint fight between Ashley and Taylah turned physical , and the judges alluded that the issue would be addressed at panel . The models then had to work in pairs to embody fugitives escaping into the Outback in a photo shoot inspired by the film Thelma and Louise . During elimination it was revealed that Taylah was disqualified from the competition , and that as a result , no one would be eliminated that week . Special guests : Tin Gauci , Kathy Ferry Featured photographer : Jordan Graham 82 7 `` Episode 7 '' 20 August 2013 ( 2013 - 08 - 20 ) The models were taken to Manning Cartell for a crash course on runway walking , and received pointers from Jennifer Hawkins and Gabby Manning . They then took part in a casting challenge for Colgate Optic White to front one of their new campaigns , and secretly had their behaviour monitored as they reacted to awkward situations planted by producers of the show . Later , the models the models arrived at the Hilton Hotel for a glamorous photo shoot that showcased their smiles . Special guests : Gabby Manning , Julian Watt , Matt O'Brien Featured photographer : Simon Upton 83 8 `` Episode 8 '' 27 August 2013 ( 2013 - 08 - 27 ) The remaining contestants arrived at the Sydney Opera House for a ballet lesson from a principal artist of The Australian Ballet , and later put their knowledge to the test in a mute fashion film for the new flavor range of Mount Franklin 's Sparkling Water . The best performer was rewarded with a custom made Samantha Wills jewellery set worth over $1,000 . For the photo shoot , the models posed in surfwear to create an image that was representative of Australian beach culture . Special guests : Amber Scott , Alex Goddard , Camilla Franks , Jordan Stenmark , Zac Stenmark Featured photographer : Zachary Handley 84 9 `` Episode 9 '' 3 September 2013 ( 2013 - 09 - 03 ) The models arrived at House of Yoga Redfern for a session of anti gravity yoga to learn how to make more dynamic poses . They later went to garden square for a constricted styling challenge in a telephone booth to re-create looks from the Alex Perry Spring / Summer collection , and one of the models made and offhand comment that did n't sit well with Alex Perry . The winner of the challenge was treated to high tea with a friend at the Langham Hotel . After an emotional discussion with Didier Cohen regarding their lives before the show , the contestants had a photo shoot with mirrors for an editorial spread to be published in Cosmopolitan . Special guests : Evangeline Yeun , Bronwyn McCahon , Nicole Adolphe Featured photographer : Richard Freeman 85 10 `` Episode 10 '' 10 September 2013 ( 2013 - 09 - 10 ) The contestants met ex-rugby player Kris Smith for an exercise session to help them channel their inner male qualities . They were later introduced to drag king Rocco DÁmore , and were dressed in male attire for a challenge in which they had to pretend to be men and stay in character whilst talking to a stranger . The winner received a $700 Microsoft Surface tablet . The models were then taken to the beach for a timeless 90s B&W masculine styled photo shoot . Special guests : Kris Smith , Rocco DÁmore Featured photographer : Georges Antoni 86 11 `` Episode 11 '' 17 September 2013 ( 2013 - 09 - 17 ) The remaining four contestants were flown to the island of Mauritius to take part in two photo shoots that would help determine which three models would make it to the grand finale . Their challenge took the form of an underwater runway show for which the best performer was treated with a traditional Mauritian sugar scrub massage . The first photo shoot was a moody session on the beach with gothic styling , followed the next day by a colorful couture shoot among residents of the Mauritian fishing village . The contestants also received letters from their families back at home . Back in Australia , the judges decided which three girls would become finalists . Featured photographer : Jez Smith 87 12 `` Episode 12 '' 24 September 2013 ( 2013 - 09 - 24 ) The live show opened with a catwalk performance from the fifteen models to Rudimental 's song `` Feel the Love '' , and the judges were asked their opinions of the final three . The final shoot for the cover and spread in Harper 's Bazaar was shown , and the judges interviewed their favorite girls on their thoughts about their careers and modelling . After a second runway performance , the show highlighted each girls ' journey throughout the competition , before going over interviews with their friends and family . Immediately afterwards , the third - placing finalist was announced . The models then perform in a rendition of Michael Jackson 's `` Smooth Criminal '' with Cirque du Soleil , and Melissa was revealed to be the eighth winner of Australia 's Next Top Model . Special guests : Rudimental , Ricki - Lee , Cirque du Soleil