Given the rapid expansion of colonial export industries in the 17th and 18th Century , natural population growth and immigration were unable to meet the increasing demand for workers . As a result , the cost of indentured servants rose substantially . In the Chesapeake Bay , for example , the cost of indentures rose as much as 60 % in the 1680s . The increase in the price of indentures did not however act as an incentive for European workers to emigrate for they were not affected by the price at which they were sold in American ports . As a result , the companies that generated indentures disrupted the price signaling effect and thus the supply of immigrants did not expand sufficiently to meet demand . Some actors in the market attempted to generate incentives for workers by shortening the length of indenture contracts based on the productivity of the prospective emigrant . Some American firms also opted to incentivize workers by paying small wages or by negotiating early expiration of indentures . The rising cost of indentured labour and its inelastic supply pushed American producers towards other forms of labour . Slaves were substantially cheaper and the supply of them was more abundant for it was not constrained by the slaves ' willingness to emigrate . Additionally , slave traders were directly incentivised by the price mechanism to expand `` production '' ( in the form of raiding expeditions ) , so supply was relatively elastic . Slavery thus was better able to satisfy labour demands in colonies requiring large quantities of unskilled workers ( for example plantation colonies in the Caribbean ) . Indentures however prevailed in colonies that required skilled workers ( in which the cost of training a slave was higher than the price differential between a slave and an indentured servant ) . Alison Smith and Abbott E Smith 's analysis of London port records shows how destination of indentured emigrants shifted from the West Indies towards New England as early as the 1660s , supporting the theory that indentured servitude might have declined in some regions because of labour market dynamics .