No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) 134 `` Hyperion Heights '' Ralph Hemecker Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz October 6 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 06 ) 3.26 In a flashback , an 18 - year - old Henry says goodbye to Regina as he departs Storybrooke on a trip to new realms , in hopes of finding his own story . Many years later , Henry runs into Cinderella 's carriage in the New Enchanted Forest and after a string of events that almost get them captured at a ball , he offers her the chance at a new start back in Storybrooke , as he is due to return through a portal that evening . When Henry finds a glass slipper left for him at their meeting spot , he decides to stay behind . In present - day Seattle , an older Henry is reunited with his daughter Lucy , whom he does not remember because of a curse . In hopes of breaking it , Lucy leads him to her neighborhood of Hyperion Heights , home to many other cursed fairytale characters including Jacinda , Lucy 's down - on - her - luck single mother who is in a contentious relationship with her powerful stepmother Victoria . Others include Roni , a bar owner who is struggling with having to sell her establishment to Victoria , and Rogers , a cop who gets promoted to a detective and is introduced to his new partner , Weaver . 135 `` A Pirate 's Life '' Tara Nicole Weyr Jane Espenson & Jerome Schwartz October 13 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 13 ) 2.74 In flashback to Storybrooke , Hook is training an 18 year old Henry as Emma watches on . She confesses to Hook that she worries Henry is about to leave on his own . In order to comfort her , Hook shows her a bottle Henry can use to call on them if he gets into trouble . Many years later , as Henry is about to be captured by Lady Tremaine , he uses the bottle to call on Emma , Hook , and Regina for help . In the present , Victoria hires Rogers and Weaver to drive Henry out of the neighborhood . Rogers does not agree with Weaver 's methods and helps Henry instead . Rogers , Henry , and Roni end up forming an alliance against Victoria . Meanwhile , Jacinda has to find another way to be at Lucy 's ballet recital after Victoria makes things difficult for her . 136 `` The Garden of Forking Paths '' Ron Underwood David H. Goodman & Brigitte Hales October 20 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 20 ) 2.49 In a flashback , Cinderella arrives at the spot in the forest where she is supposed to meet Henry , but does not find him there . She then meets Princess Tiana , who recruits her to be part of the resistance against Lady Tremaine . She leaves one of her glass slippers behind for Henry to find . A short while later , Henry , Regina , and Hook arrive at their campsite and join the efforts . Later , Cinderella sneaks into Tremaine 's castle alone , where Tremaine reveals that she has kept her almost - deceased daughter Anastasia preserved since her `` death '' at age 14 and needs a pure heart to revive her . She tasks Cinderella with stealing Henry 's , since he has the heart of the truest believer . In the present day , Jacinda tries to save Lucy 's beloved community garden from Victoria , while Lucy takes a skeptical Henry on a trip under the garden lot in hopes of finding proof of everyone 's fairytale pasts . Meanwhile , Henry , Roni , and Rogers find their first lead against Victoria . Rogers captures the man working with her , but is irritated to find Weaver setting the man free to use him as a future connection . Also , it is revealed that Victoria is not cursed and has been keeping a witch as her prisoner at the top of Belfrey Towers . 137 `` Beauty '' Mick Garris Dana Horgan & Leah Fong October 27 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 27 ) 2.44 This episode 's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed . Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise . ( December 2017 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) In a flashback to Gideon 's first birthday , Rumple and Belle decide to leave Storybrooke to travel the world . Years later , Rumple tells Belle that he wants to stop being the Dark One so he can be mortal again and live out one single life with her . Over the years , they search for ways to get rid of his darkness . When Gideon is 18 , Belle comes across a prophecy that leads them to the Edge of Realms , where they must wait for the sun 's brightest set before they can be guided to the path Rumple must take to get rid of the Darkness . They build a home there as they wait for the event to occur . However , an aging Belle eventually admits that the `` sun '' of which the prophecy spoke was actually herself and that her death will mark the start of his journey . When Belle dies , Rumple sets off to search for a Guardian who will be able to take the Darkness from him so that he can ultimately be reunited with Belle . In the present day , Tilly , who is actually Alice , begins to wake up from the curse after she stops taking pills given to her by Victoria and tries to get Weaver to remember his true identity . 138 5 `` Greenbacks '' Geofrey Hildrew Christopher Hollier & Adam Karp November 3 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 03 ) 2.29 In flashbacks , Tiana seeks a prince to help save her kingdom and is guided by Dr. Facilier to a man named Robert . She soon realizes that Facilier had enlisted Robert to steal a magical ruby from her in exchange for reuniting him with his lover who had been turned into a frog . In the present day , Tiana decides to run a pop - up beignet shop out of Mr. Cluck 's with Jacinda 's help . Victoria sends someone to burn the place down , which then causes friction between the two roommates. Rogers comes across a detainee at the police station who he thinks is connected to Eloise Gardener , the missing girl he 's trying to find . Meanwhile , Roni decides to investigate Ivy 's interest in helping Henry . Ivy takes her to the top of the towers and Roni finds a photo of herself and a young Henry taken in Storybrooke . However , it is later revealed that Ivy has n't been cursed either and has her own dealings with the witch of which her mother is unaware . 139 6 `` Wake Up Call '' Sharat Raju Jerome Schwartz & Jane Espenson November 10 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 10 ) 2.37 In a flashback , Regina comes across Drizella , who is looking for magic to escape from her mother . When she reveals that she was actually born with magic , Regina begins to train her . However after Regina runs into Rumple , who tells her that Lady Tremaine must have been aware of the magic lessons , the two women realize that Lady Tremaine was counting on using Drizella 's heart to revive Anastasia . Drizella ends up blackening her own heart by killing the prince , making it unusable for revival , and vows to cast a Curse like Regina 's to make her mother suffer . In the present day , Roni struggles with what to believe about the mysterious photo , which is complicated by newly discovered information about `` Regina Mills '' into which Lucy encouraged her to look . Drizella gathers the ingredients for a plant that the witch then cultivates and , when she serves its essence to Roni , she wakes up and remembers her life as Regina . Drizella then reveals that she cast the curse and blackmails Regina into keeping Henry and Jacinda apart , reminding her of a special contingency that was put into the Curse that would force her to comply . 140 7 `` Eloise Gardener '' Alex Kalymnios David H. Goodman & Brigitte Hales November 17 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 17 ) 2.28 This episode 's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed . Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise . ( December 2017 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) In a flashback to the Wish Realm shortly after the Charmings stopped Regina from casting her curse , Hook agrees to grant her passage on the Jolly Roger in exchange for leading him to powerful magic guarded by a witch . When he arrives at the witch 's tower , he finds Rapunzel instead . She instructs him to retrieve a golden flower from the witch 's garden . When he returns with it to help her , they spend the night together . The next morning , it is revealed that Rapunzel is actually Gothel and their night together produced a baby , whom Gothel leaves behind so she can escape the tower . Hook gives the Jolly Roger to Smee and decides to stay with his daughter , who is unable to leave due to the tower 's spell . He names her Alice after his own mother . In the present day , Rogers is on a mad hunt for Eloise with help from Henry and Tilly . Tilly later informs him that Eloise has died , but it turns out that the news was planted by Weaver to throw him off the case . When Rogers finds Gothel , he believes that she is Eloise and frees her from Victoria , who gets locked up for kidnapping . 141 8 `` Pretty in Blue '' Ralph Hemecker Dana Horgan & Leah Fong November 17 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 17 ) 2.28 This episode 's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed . Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise . ( December 2017 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) In flashbacks , Hook is reunited with Alice , who claims that they have been cured of their curse . However , when they try to embrace , Hook gets hurt and Alice runs away in fear . Henry and Cinderella chase her back to New Wonderland , a place where Cinderella reveals her mother Cecilia ran to after abandoning her and her stepfather . She takes a shrinking potion and leaves Henry , heading into the Infinite Maze alone to find answers . She finds Alice , who tells her that she met Cecilia before and that she was also afflicted with the Curse of the Poisoned Heart . Drizella appears in New Wonderland with a plan to curse Henry , but Alice and Cinderella are able to save him . Henry and Cinderella then share their first kiss . In the present day , Jacinda contacts Nick ( Jack in Fairy Tale Land ) , a lawyer whom she has been cursed to believe is Lucy 's father . He agrees to help her regain custody of Lucy , to Henry 's dismay , and Lucy encourages Henry to fight for Jacinda . Meanwhile , Drizella and Gothel plan to revive Anastasia but , when they open her coffin , her body is missing . After Regina confronts Rumple , who refuses to confirm that he has woken up from the curse , she announces to Henry that she 's heading to San Francisco to meet with someone who was pushed out of town by Victoria . He agrees to join her on the trip . 142 9 `` One Little Tear '' Steve Pearlman Christopher Hollier & Adam Karp December 8 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 08 ) 2.45 Victoria strikes a deal with Weaver in an attempt to free herself from jail and wake Anastasia . In flashbacks , Rapunzel steals from Mother Gothel 's garden to save her family and is trapped in a tower in exchange . After six years of captivity , Rapunzel escapes using her hair , but finds her husband Marcus has married Cecilia , gaining a stepdaughter , Ella . Gothel tempts Rapunzel with a New Wonderland mushroom , which she uses to poison Cecilia 's heart . One day , Anastasia and Ella fall through thin ice but , to Rapunzel 's disbelief , their father only manages to save Ella . Rapunzel seeks Gothel 's help , who magically seals Anastasia 's last breath with the price of keeping Anastasia in the tower . However , Rapunzel tricks Gothel who becomes trapped in her own tower until someone in her bloodline takes her place . In the present , Victoria strangely gives full custody of Lucy to Jacinda , claiming to be a changed person . Victoria retrieves the Once Upon a Time book and shows Lucy her unfortunate life story as Rapunzel , convincing Lucy to give up her belief in happy endings . As Lucy sheds a tear , Victoria uses it to awaken Anastasia , while Lucy collapses into unconsciousness . 143 10 `` The Eighth Witch '' Ralph Hemecker Jane Espenson & Jerome Schwartz December 15 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 15 ) 2.29 In a flashback , baby Lucy is born , just as Drizella appears to deliver a prophecy about a curse . The heroes are able to turn Drizella to stone . Eight years later , everyone is celebrating Lucy 's birthday when Gothel appears with her coven of witches , recruiting Drizella to join them as she is finally freed . With the curse looming , Regina heads off to get help from Zelena . Later , when the heroes confront the witches , Gothel reveals that they have poisoned Henry , and Regina is forced into casting Drizella 's curse to save his life . In the present day , Regina has located a cursed Zelena in San Francisco , who is now known as Kelly . Regina is able to give Zelena her memories back and the two head back to Seattle , knowing that breaking the curse to help Lucy would only hurt Henry instead . Rumple tests Anastasia to see if she is the Guardian . However , Gothel also wants Anastasia and severs her alliance with Drizella after the girl is brought to her , deeming Anastasia to be more useful in her coven . Gothel tells her that they need to find their fellow witches . 144 11 `` Secret Garden '' Mick Garris Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz March 2 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 02 ) 2.14 In a flashback , an 18 - year - old Robin has been secretly dabbling in magic against her mother 's wishes . After attempting a spell that leads her to Gothel , Robin disappears from Storybrooke and Zelena arrives in the New Enchanted Forest looking for her . Robin is excited to apprentice under the powerful witch but soon finds out that Gothel only wants her to be the sacrifice needed for a resurrection amulet to bring Madame Leota back to the land of the living . In the present day , Regina and Zelena seek the resurrection amulet in hopes of finding another way to save Lucy . However , Tremaine gets a hold of the amulet and hands it over to Gothel , not realizing that Gothel intends to use Drizella as the sacrifice this time around . As the amulet 's magic begins to take Drizella 's life , Tremaine decides to sacrifice herself to save her daughter and dies as Lucy begins to awaken . Elsewhere , it is revealed that there is a killer on the loose in Hyperion Heights , as a doctor who finds out about Lucy 's true paternity is poisoned by a mysterious figure . 145 12 `` A Taste of the Heights '' Nina Lopez - Corrado David H. Goodman & Brigitte Hales March 9 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 09 ) 2.22 In a flashback to the day of Tiana 's coronation , Facilier appears to warn her of a danger to her kingdom , which ends up sending her on a hunt for a giant alligator . She meets Prince Naveen at the wreckage site and while the two do n't get along , they agree to search for it together . When the alligator attacks them on a lake , Tiana is able to kill it but Naveen is left gravely injured . When Facilier reappears to claim a necklace from inside of the beast , Tiana gets him to revive Naveen , but on a previously undisclosed condition that the prince is to be enslaved to him until further notice . In the present day , Sabine is excited to participate in a food truck festival until an anonymous tip to the cops leaves her unable . She accuses Drew , a former classmate - turned - food truck rival , of sabotage . However , it is revealed that Drew is under orders from Samdi , a mysterious investor , to get close to her for his own purposes . Regina figures out that Facilier is n't really cursed and it is revealed that they have a history tracing back to the Enchanted Forest . Meanwhile , Lucy discovers upsetting information about the current curse , while Rogers and Weaver uncover that the neighborhood killer is going after witches in particular . 146 13 `` Knightfall '' Steve Miner Jerome Schwartz & Miguel Ian Raya March 16 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 16 ) 2.38 In the flashbacks , after a young Alice has been receiving frightening visions of Gothel attacking her and Hook in the tower , Hook vows to help her escape and seeks help from the Rumple in the Wish Realm . Rumple tells him to procure a magical fish hook from Captain Ahab . He wins it from Ahab over a die roll , however , when Ahab comes back to taunt him about his former pirate status , Hook agrees to a pistol duel . When he returns to the tower , Hook and Alice find themselves branded and cursed by Gothel , who had poisoned the bullet that hit him . In the present day , Rogers and Weaver interrogate Eloise about her cult , though she is only interested in playing mind games with Rogers . Tilly , who is experiencing a manic episode , desperately tries to convince the detectives to see Eloise for who she really is . When they deduce that Eloise was trying to mislead them about the case , they check up on Hilda in the hospital , only to find her dead with Tilly holding a scalpel in the room . 147 14 `` The Girl in the Tower '' Antonio Negret Dana Horgan & Leah Fong March 23 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 23 ) 2.11 In a flashback , Alice makes a birthday wish to get out of the tower and shortly after , a troll appears and helps her escape . Years later , Alice is caught spying on the resistance group by Robin , who had just recently arrived to the New Enchanted Forest . Robin intends to honor her father 's legacy by hunting down Alice 's troll , who has since been destroying villages , but Alice goes after her to protect it . In the present day , Rogers , Henry , and Tilly are looking for evidence of Tilly being elsewhere during the time of the baker 's murder to clear her name . As she retraces her steps , Tilly grows frustrated when she finds that no one can remember seeing her at the places she had visited . Meanwhile , Regina asks Facilier out on a date so that Lucy can break into his suite to look for clues as to what he seeks in Hyperion Heights . 148 15 `` Sisterhood '' Ellen S. Pressman Christopher Hollier & Adam Karp March 30 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 30 ) 2.03 In a flashback , Gothel recruits Drizella to compete for one of two spots in her coven . Drizella strikes a partnership with Gretel and they agree to help each other out on the course , however , it turns out that real test was that one would have to kill the other to win . In the present day , Drizella is attacked by the neighborhood `` Candy Killer . '' Facilier offers her a way to escape to her home realm , though it would be at the expense of Anastasia 's life . Initially , Drizella lures Anastasia in under the guise of wanting to rekindle their sisterhood and brings her to Facilier to perform the ritual . When Anastasia unexpectedly awakens , she must choose between Drizella or Gothel , and ultimately chooses her sister . The two are able to open a portal and leave Hyperion Heights to start over together in the New Enchanted Forest . Meanwhile , Lucy organizes a boys night out for Henry , Rogers , and Nick , which ends with the revelation that Nick is the Candy Killer . 149 16 `` Breadcrumbs '' Ron Underwood Jane Espenson & Jerome Schwartz April 6 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 06 ) 2.15 In a flashback , Henry expresses his desire to find his own story , as he feels unworthy of Ella . When he mentions to Hook that he wants to propose with a special ring like the one of his grandparents , Hook suggests that they retrieve one from Davy Jones ' locker and the two sneak aboard the Jolly Roger to overtake it from Blackbeard . However , it is revealed that it was all a set - up by Hook so that Henry could feel like he partook in an epic adventure . A little while later , Henry ends up proposing to Ella anyway . In the present day , Henry lands a job interview in New York but before he can leave , Weaver finds his novel at the crime scene and insists that he help the police identify the Candy Killer , whom they conclude is a man who believes he is the `` Hansel '' of the story . When Henry gets a flat tire driving to the airport , Nick offers him a ride , which ends with Henry getting kidnapped by Nick , who confirms the former 's suspicions of him being Hansel and the Candy Killer . As this is happening , Zelena is horrified to find that she is the killer 's next target . 150 17 `` Chosen '' Lana Parrilla Paul Karp & Brian Ridings April 13 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 13 ) 2.18 In a flashback , another witch , who is in possession of Hansel and Gretel , has settled into Oz , to Zelena 's disdain . After Zelena refuses to help the kids , she is magically weakened by the witch , and faints in the forest . She is taken in by a blind man named Ivo , who happens to be Hansel and Gretel 's father . When Zelena decides to go back for the children , she finds that they had already escaped and told their father about their encounter with her . When the family refuses to give her a second chance , Zelena angrily burns Hansel . In the present day , Jack tells Henry everything about their fairytale pasts , but Henry is still a nonbeliever . Jack kidnaps Chad to lure in Zelena to get his revenge . Zelena ends up having to tell Chad her real name and hints at her wicked past , though he does n't care and the two decide to move back to San Francisco together . Meanwhile , Facilier uses Naveen , who is actually not cursed , to get magic for a voodoo doll that he uses to kill Jack . 151 18 `` The Guardian '' Geofrey Hildrew David H. Goodman & Brigitte Hales April 20 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 20 ) 2.12 In the past , Mr. Gold , still dealing with the loss of Belle , is challenged by Facilier to rid himself of the Dagger by seeking out the Guardian , who is able to free him of the Darkness . When Gold finds Alice and believe her to be the person he was looking for , he test out the theory on Facilier by pulling his heart out and his hunch was correct , but then has a change of heart by withholding transfer of his power to Alice so she can be happy with Robin and not dealing with the burden she would carry . Alice also convinced Hook that Rumpelstiltskin is not a villain and the two became friends . In the present , Nick 's death has Weaver suspecting Samdi of stealing the Dagger , but Samdi says he had no involvement with taking the latter . Weaver also betrayed Roni by using the magic needed to save Henry in order to track down the Dagger , which lead it to Tilly , whose first date with Margot is distracted by the voices from the Dagger itself , but in the end Margot does see a soulmate in Tilly . When Rogers discovers Drew was the last person who might have known what happened to Nick , Drew warns him about Samdi and how Nick died . Henry discovers that Nick / Hansel was telling him the truth about the blood test results that confirmed him as Lucy 's father and shared the results to a stunned Jacinda . 152 19 `` Flower Child '' Tessa Blake Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz April 27 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 27 ) TBD 153 20 `` Is This Henry Mills ? '' Ron Underwood Dana Horgan & Leah Fong May 4 , 2018 ( 2018 - 05 - 04 ) TBD 154 21 `` Homecoming '' Steve Pearlman David H. Goodman May 11 , 2018 ( 2018 - 05 - 11 ) TBD 155 22 `` Leaving Storybrooke '' TBA Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz May 18 , 2018 ( 2018 - 05 - 18 ) TBD