Downloadable content and expansion packs Year Name Release date Notes Year 1 Operation Black Ice February 2 , 2016 The DLC introduces a new map , a frozen yacht in Canada . It also introduces two Canadian operators , Frost and Buck . Frost can use a trap to incapacitate enemies , while Buck has an under - barrel shotgun . Operation Dust Line May 11 , 2016 The DLC introduces a new map set in the Middle East , which was described as `` a mix of old and new construction with open air pathways '' . It also introduces two new operators , Blackbeard and Valkyrie . Blackbeard has two shields that can be mounted onto his rifle , while Valkyrie has three Black Eye Cameras . Operation Skull Rain August 2 , 2016 The DLC introduces a new map set in Brazil , and two Brazilian operators called Capitão and Caveira . Capitão has a tactical crossbow which can be loaded with asphyxiating bolts , that will burn oxygen within a certain radius , or smoke grenade bolts that create a thick cloud of smoke . Caveira has an ability called Silent Step , which allows her to interrogate an immobilized enemy for the location of other enemies . Operation Red Crow November 17 , 2016 The DLC introduces a new map set in a skyscraper in Japan , and two Japanese operators called Hibana and Echo . Hibana possesses a weapon that launches up to three sets of six explosives that can break reinforced walls , while Echo uses a drone capable of releasing sonic blasts to disorient enemies . Year 2 Operation Velvet Shell February 8 , 2017 The DLC introduces a new map set in Spain , and two Spanish operators called Mira and Jackal . Jackal is a tracker who can reveal the location of enemies by tracking their footprints , while Mira can create one - way windows on walls which can be ejected , leaving a space for operators to fire through . Operation Health June 6 , 2017 Operation Health is an update that fine - tuned many of the game 's aspects , including fixes to hit boxes , spawn killing and audio issues . This resulted in the delay of season 2 's content and the cancellation of a map . Operation Blood Orchid September 5 , 2017 The DLC introduces a new map set in Hong Kong , two Hong Kong operators named Ying and Lesion , and one Polish operator named Ela . Ying utilizes candela cluster charges that can be thrown or attached to a surface to stun enemies . Lesion uses poison mines that slow and cause damage to an enemy overtime when triggered . Ela possesses proximity concussion mines that can be attached to multiple surfaces to disorient enemies . Operation White Noise December 5 , 2017 The DLC introduces a new map set in South Korea , two South Korean operators named Dokkaebi and Vigil , and one Polish operator named Zofia . Dokkaebi is able to hack cameras and enemy phones to make them ring , giving away their positions through sound . Vigil is invisible to enemy drones and cameras . Zofia carries a double barreled grenade launcher capable of launching explosive or concussion grenades . Year 3 Operation Chimera TBA The DLC , in addition to introducing a new map and two new operators , will include a coooperative multiplayer timed event named `` Outbreak '' .