No . overall No. in season English Title French Title Directed by Written by Original air date ( France ) Netflix release date Prod . code 27 `` The Collector '' `` Le Collectionneur '' Thomas Astruc Wilfried Pain Thomas Astruc Matthieu Choquet Fred Lenoir Sébastien Thibaudeau 26 October 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 26 ) 30 March 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 30 ) 201 Master Fu explains to Marinette his role as a Guardian of the Miraculouses ; due to a mistake he made in the past , their temple was wiped out , and the Butterfly and Peacock Miraculouses were lost . He suspects that whoever owned the Miraculous book must be Hawk Moth , sending Marinette into a panic at the thought that it could be Adrien . Meanwhile , Gabriel grounds Adrien for stealing and losing the book . When Marinette learns the book was Gabriel 's , she suspects he may be Hawk Moth instead . Hawk Moth unleashes an akuma , but then de-transforms and Gabriel then akumatizes himself into `` The Collector '' , a supervillain who throws a book around to capture anything it touches into his book . After Ladybug and Cat Noir eventually defeat him and transform him back to Gabriel , Master Fu is not so sure he is cleared of being Hawk Moth . Master Fu captures the contents of the book onto a smartphone , and Marinette returns the book to Gabriel , who reveals that he obtained the book during an overseas trip with his wife and that it is his last memento of her . He rescinds Adrien 's grounding and shares a hug with him and Adrien returns to school to the joy of his classmates . Gabriel returns to his secret lair and transforms into Hawk Moth , having fooled the heroes and vowing to get their Miraculouses . The English version of this episode was first shown on Disney Channel in the UK and Ireland on 4 November 2017 . 28 `` Despair Bear '' `` Doudou Vilain '' Thomas Astruc Jun Violet Thomas Astruc Matthieu Choquet Fred Lenoir Nolwenn Pierre Sébastien Thibaudeau 27 October 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 27 ) 30 March 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 30 ) TBA After Chloé sets off a false fire alarm forcing the entire student body to do chores as punishment , Adrien scolds Chloé telling her that she must be ' nice ' to people if she wants them to remain friends . Chloé 's butler Jean has her host a party for everyone and encouraging her to what her old teddy bear would do . Confident , Hawk Moth sends an akuma beforehand . During the party , Chloé tries her best , but when seeing Adrien dancing with Marinette , Chloé loses her temper and Jean accidentally reveals her teddy bear , leading Chloé to embarrassment and to fire him . Feeling vengeful , the akuma then targets Jean , and turns into `` Despair Bear '' , a doll - sized villain who has the ability to manipulate anyone he touches . The English version of this episode was first shown on Disney Channel in the UK and Ireland on 11 November 2017 . 29 `` Prime Queen '' `` Audimatrix '' Thomas Astruc Christelle Abgrall Thomas Astruc Matthieu Choquet Fred Lenoir Sébastien Thibaudeau 29 October 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 29 ) 30 March 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 30 ) TBA Marinette has to babysit Manon , but realizes Ladybug has to interview for a television show , so she invites Alya over and excuses herself to help her parents downstairs . Realizing she needs higher television ratings , host Nadja Chamack resorts to asking about Ladybug and Cat Noir 's supposed romantic relationship , which causes Ladybug to depart , dragging Cat Noir in tow . Laid off , Nadja is akumatized by Hawk Moth , and turns into `` Prime Queen '' , a naughty reporter whose ability to teleport through television screens and posters ; she creates a show in order to capture the two heroes . The English version of this episode was first shown on Disney Channel in the UK and Ireland on 18 November 2017 . 30 `` Befana '' `` La Béfana '' Thomas Astruc Benoît Boucher Thomas Astruc Mélanie Duval Sébastien Thibaudeau 30 October 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 30 ) 30 March 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 30 ) TBA Marinette is excited today is her birthday . Not only that , but her grandmother Gina Dupain is also visiting . Despite being excited to visit Marinette , Gina is surprised to see how much Marinette has grown up , but is saddened when Marinette does mostly new things . While hanging out , Marinette heads to where her friends planned her surprise party and ditches Gina . Feeling rejected , Gina becomes influenced by Hawk Moth , and turns into `` Befana '' , a mean - spirited baddie with the ability to turn people who do bad things into coal and those who do good into angels , who become her servants , with a gun filled with candy she wanted to give Marinette . The English version of this episode was first shown on Disney Channel in the UK and Ireland on 25 November 2017 . 31 5 `` Riposte '' Thomas Astruc Jun Violet Thomas Astruc Matthieu Choquet Fred Lenoir Sébastien Thibaudeau 1 November 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 01 ) 30 March 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 30 ) TBA On the fencing court , Marinette has hopes of joining to impress Adrien . Armand assigns the new recruits to pair with the experience ones . A new student , Kagami Tsurugi , the daughter of a famous fencer , moved in Paris and challenges Adrien to show everyone she 's the best fencer . After a duel , Marinette , not wanting Adrien to be second best and not sure how the battle ended , due to Kagami chasing Adrien around and battling fiercely and roughly , declares Adrien the winner , much to Kagami 's dismay and humiliation , causing her to depart from the school . Disappointed , Kagami becomes akumatized by Hawk Moth , and turns into `` Riposte '' , a silver armor samurai villain with the power to slice and cut anything in half with one armed sword . The English version of this episode was first shown on Disney Channel in the UK and Ireland on 2 December 2017 . 32 6 `` Robostus '' Thomas Astruc Wilfried Pain Thomas Astruc Matthieu Choquet Fred Lenoir Sébastien Thibaudeau 3 November 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 03 ) 30 March 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 30 ) TBA When Max builds Markov , a miniature robot capable of real human emotions , he is hesitant to even reveal him . After helping prevent a computer virus from wiping the school 's servers , Principal Damocles instead confiscates Markov thinking that he 's a toy . Markov even becomes akumatized by Hawk Moth , and turns into `` Robostus '' , a techno - threat capable of giving life to mechanical devices . When Hawk Moth tells Robostus to bring him the Miraculous , he mistakenly informs him of their power to grant wishes . Robostus takes Max with him in his new megasized body to the Paris Stadium , where he ambushes Ladybug and Cat Noir . When Robostus is about to gain the heroic duo 's Miraculouses , he intends to take them for himself to gain mortality ; only for Max , wanting his friend back , to free Ladybug and Cat Noir , who capture and de-evilize Markov . Marinette asks Master Fu , who elaborates the Miraculouses ' ability to grant wishes . Due to the universe needing to maintain balance who ever is granted a wish , someone else must lose the very thing wished for . Marinette promises Master Fu to not allow this , and to continue guarding her own Miraculous . The English version of this episode was first shown on Disney Channel in the UK and Ireland on 9 December 2017 . 33 7 `` Gigantitan '' Thomas Astruc Christelle Abgrall Thomas Astruc Matthieu Choquet Fred Lenoir Sébastien Thibaudeau 26 November 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 26 ) 30 March 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 30 ) TBA Today is a great day for Marinette : she and her friends Mylène , Rose , Juleka , Alix and , of course , Alya , have come up with a flawless plan to help Marinette propose a romantic stroll to Adrien . But nothing is going as planned and Adrien 's bodyguard , annoyed by the girls , becomes Hawk Moth 's target . However , while the latter tries to akumatize him , the Gorilla calms down . The akuma then transforms a young child , who is nearby and upset at not having his candy , into Gigantitan , a fifty foot ( disobedient ) giant . 34 8 `` The Dark Owl '' `` Le Hibou Noir '' Thomas Astruc Jun Violet Thomas Astruc Matthieu Choquet Fred Lenoir Sébastien Thibaudeau 10 December 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 10 ) 30 March 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 30 ) TBA Principal Damocles starts characterizing his favorite hero Knightowl and acts like him as well . However , while performing , he becomes the laughing stock of the school when Ladybug and Cat Noir thought he was trying to play hero and tried to perform a stunt that went horribly wrong . Humiliated , Damocles becomes akumatized and turns into Dark Owl , the actual superhero , and traps the heroes in a chamber to reveal their true identities . Not ready to know each other 's identity yet , they de-transform with their eyes closed as Ladybug gives Hawk Moth fake Miraculouses , unaware that Tikki and Plagg start to meet each other and begin to know the identities of one another . This episode first premiered worldwide in Spain on December 5 , 2017 35 9 `` Glaciator '' Thomas Astruc Wilfried Pain Thomas Astruc Matthieu Choquet Fred Lenoir Sébastien Thibaudeau 14 January 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 14 ) 30 March 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 30 ) TBA Marinette , Alya and her other friends go to eat some ice cream together at André , a famous ice cream maker in Paris . According to a legend , the couple who eats an ice cream at André 's place will love each other forever ! Marinette hopes that Adrien will be there , but he did not come . For a good reason : he transformed into Cat Noir to prepare a candlelight dinner for Ladybug . Disappointed by the absence of Adrien , Marinette refuses to eat the ice cream André gave her . Depressed over the failed romance , Andre becomes akumatized by Hawk Moth and turns into Glaciator , a giant ice cream snowman with the power that transforms ' single people ' into ice cream and they start to melt ! Ladybug and Cat Noir must not get cold feet if they want to stop him . In the midst , Marinette comes to know Cat Noir 's genuine and sensitive side . This episode was scheduled to premiere on TFOU on December 17 , 2017 , but it did not air due to production issues . 36 10 `` Sapotis '' Thomas Astruc Jun Violet Thomas Astruc Matthieu Choquet Fred Lenoir Sébastien Thibaudeau 21 January 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 21 ) 30 March 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 30 ) TBA Marinette helps Alya babysit the latter 's twin sisters Ella and Etta . When they keep staying up and refuse to go to bed , Alya forbids them from going to the amusement park the next day and confiscate one of their hats . The twins are fighting over the other hat , then Hawk Moth akumatize them into Sapotis , a pair of small but totally unpredictable monsters that multiply and cause havoc . When Ladybug and Cat Noir are overwhelmed by the creatures , Ladybug is prompted by her Lucky Charm to visit Master Fu , who loans her the Fox Miraculous . Ladybug gives the Miraculous to Alya , who , with the command of Trixx the kwami , transforms into the fox - themed superheroine Rena Rouge . After the three heroes overcome the Sapotis menace , Alya reluctantly returns the Fox Miraculous to Ladybug and keeps the details of her adventure a secret . 37 11 `` Gorizilla '' Thomas Astruc Benoît Boucher Thomas Astruc Matthieu Choquet Mélanie Duval Sébastien Thibaudeau TBA 30 March 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 30 ) TBA Adrien sneaks out to watch a particular movie Solitude in which his mother plays the lead role , but gets mobbed and runs into Marinette who he turns to for help . Meanwhile , Gabriel suspects his son might be Cat Noir . He sends Adrien 's bodyguard after him , when the Gorilla just got his car towed for illegal parking , and Gabriel transforms into Hawk Moth and decides to akumatize the frustrated bodyguard to get faster results . The Gorilla becomes Gorizilla , a giant ape with enormous strength and a keen sense of smell , and begins to follow Adrien all through Paris . Ladybug jumps into action to save Adrien , while the latter tries to hide and transform into Cat Noir to help Ladybug . In the end , when the villain is defeated , Gabriel is convinced he was wrong about Adrien being Cat Noir since he saw both them at the same time ( but he actually saw one of Adrien 's fans , who disguised himself as Adrien ) . When the real Adrien returns home , Gabriel shows him the movie he wanted to watch , in order to gain more of his trust . This episode first premiered worldwide in Canada on Family Channel on March 14 , 2018 . 38 12 `` Captain Hardrock '' `` Capitaine Hardrock '' Thomas Astruc Wilfried Pain Thomas Astruc Fred Lenoir Jean - Remi Perrin Sébastien Thibaudeau TBA ( TBA ) 30 March 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 30 ) TBA Today is Paris ' music festival , Marinette and her friends are all setting up at the Couffaine houseboat . Juleka 's mother , Anarka , will direct the stage . However , Marinette worries about Adrien , since his father has isolated him again after making a mistake in his piano act . In spite of Alya 's reassures , Marinette goes to find Juleka 's brother , Luka , and discovers they share similar hobbies and feels attracted to him . When Luka practices the guitar recital , it causes a huge sound wave creating a disturbance in Paris , which prompts Officer Roger and the police to disqualify Anarka 's stage performance . Upset and dejected , Anarka is akumatized by Hawk Moth and becomes Captain Hardrock , a pirate who wants to blast her music across Paris , ruining Jagged Stone and XY 's concerts . This episode first premiered worldwide in the U.S. on Netflix on March 30 , 2018 . It also premiered in Canada on Family Channel . 39 13 `` Zombizou '' Thomas Astruc Wilfried Pain Thomas Astruc Wilfried Pain TBA ( TBA ) TBA TBA It 's Miss Bustier 's birthday and all her cherish students have gifts for her , except for Chloé . After being called out for it , she messes up Marinette 's gift . When Marinette is privately talked by Miss Bustier in the hall , her protest makes her a target for Hawk Moth . Miss Bustier calms her down , but she ends up akumatized trying to save Marinette . She is brainwashed into the love spreading `` Zombizou '' , whose kiss contagiously turns others into kissing zombies , and she targets Chloé . Ladybug and Cat Noir gather an evacuation at the Eiffel Tower from the kissing invasion . When Bustier is de-evilized , Chloé actually admits the fault is hers and accepts forgiveness ; on the other hand , conquering true love gives Hawk Moth the hope for his wish . This episode first premiered worldwide in Canada on Family Channel on April 13 , 2018 . 40 14 `` Syren '' Thomas Astruc TBA TBA ( TBA ) TBA TBA This episode was originally supposed to air on April 21 , 2018 in the UK , but it did n't due to a sudden change of schedule . This episode will first premiere worldwide in Spain on Disney Channel on May 5 , 2018 . The English version of this episode will premiere in the UK on Disney Channel on May 12 , 2018 .