No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) 65 `` Chapter Sixty - Five '' Brad Silberling Jennie Snyder Urman & Paul Sciarrotta October 13 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 13 ) 0.68 Picking up immediately after where Season 3 left off , Jane is reunited with her first love , Adam , who found the love letter that Michael wrote . She is surprised , but happy , to see him . However , both Xo and Alba are less thrilled that he is back . Meanwhile , Rafael loses ownership of the hotel to his sister and as a result , he finds himself living at Jane 's house , broke and homeless . Jane and Rafael learn that the missing Petra has been found after she got away from Anezka and they rush to her side , but Anezka is nowhere to be found . When Petra returns to the hotel , Luisa thinks that Petra is Anezka . Petra goes along with the game , until the real Anezka returns . Elsewhere , Xo and Rogelio 's married life is interrupted when they confront the realization that Darci is having Rogelio 's baby and she wants full custody . 66 `` Chapter Sixty - Six '' Gina Lamar Valentina Garza & Jessica O'Toole & Amy Rardin October 20 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 20 ) 0.61 Jane 's relationship with Adam helps bring out her `` fun side '' and reminds her that she is n't just a mom . However , when Adam gets a job opportunity out of state , he asks for Jane 's opinion on if he should stay or go . Meanwhile , Rogelio continues to face issues with his co-star at work and things are about to get even worse . Xo is helping to take care of Darci to prove that Rogelio is committed to being a father to the baby . Also , Petra and Rafael begin working together to try and buy back the hotel from Luisa , but they are running into trouble involving Anezka , causing tension between them . 67 `` Chapter Sixty - Seven '' Fernando Sariñana Carolina Rivera & Micah Schraft October 27 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 27 ) 0.60 Jane and Adam 's relationship seems to be moving on , and Jane thinks that it might be time for him to meet her son Mateo , but Rafael is not happy with this idea . Meanwhile , as the arrival of Darci 's baby approaches , Rogelio 's jealously of her new boyfriend increases as well . Trying to be supportive , Xo encourages Rogelio to step up and be the father he was meant to be . Elsewhere , Rafael is determined to get his hotel and life back from Luisa and will do whatever he has to do to make it happen , with or without Petra 's help . 68 `` Chapter Sixty - Eight '' Gina Lamar Deirdre Shaw & Chantelle M. Wells November 3 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 03 ) 0.69 Jane becomes angry when she learns that Rafael introduced Mateo to his new girlfriend , Katherine , without her consent because she thinks Katherine is a negative influence on both Rafael and Mateo . Jane turns to Petra for help with the situation . Meanwhile , Rogelio and Darci struggle to choose a name for the baby . Elsewhere , Xo , who is focused on opening her own dance studio , decides to go into business with an unlikely foe . 69 5 `` Chapter Sixty - Nine '' Stuart Gillard Paul Sciarrotta November 10 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 10 ) 0.65 After Adam reveals his dating past to Jane , she becomes so unsure and insecure that it puts a strain on their relationship . Meanwhile , Lina seeks Jane 's advice about whether she should get married or not . Petra hears some important information that could help Rafael get the hotel back . Also , Xo asks Rogelio to consider having a medical procedure ( vasectomy ) done , but he is very hesitant . 70 6 `` Chapter Seventy '' Melanie Mayron Carolina Rivera & Micah Schraft November 17 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 17 ) 0.61 Jane 's book is finally being released but her plans to have a party at the local bookshop where she was inspired to be a writer hit a snag . Always wanting to help Jane , Rogelio devises a plan to save the day , but one of his arch - rivals threatens to ruin the day . Meanwhile , Rafael gets a new job , but it is not exactly what he was hoping for . Also , Petra has come up with an interesting strategy to get the Marbella Hotel back from Luisa , but Rafael wants nothing to do with the scheme . 71 7 `` Chapter Seventy - One '' Micah Schraft Valentina Garza & Deidre Shaw December 8 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 08 ) 0.65 Anezka is revealed to have faked her death to see where her loyalties lie ; initially , she trusts Petra after believing she saw her cry , but after finding out she was n't crying because of her fake death , she threatens Petra . Later , Anezka falls from Petra 's apartment to her death ... for real . Meanwhile , Xiomara and Jane set off on Jane 's book tour , when Alba decides to tag along . After they get back , Jane and Rafael share a kiss . 72 8 `` Chapter Seventy - Two '' Melanie Mayron Carolina Rivera & Paul Sciarrotta January 26 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 26 ) 0.68 Mateo starts kindergarten and invites a friend over to Xiomara and Rogelio 's house . Jane and Rafael try to cover up that they are pretending to live in their house so they do n't get kicked out . Jane and Rafael show mixed emotions following the kiss and try again , which Mateo notices . He then proclaims : `` Does this mean you 're going to get married ? '' After Xo convinces Rogelio to attend couples therapy , they both are surprised by their emotions . Meanwhile , Petra hires a lawyer named Jane Ramos ( Rosario Dawson ) , to ensure she gets no charges pending Anezka 's death . Also , Rafael moves out of Jane 's house into his new apartment . 73 9 `` Chapter Seventy - Three '' Eric Lea Valentina Garza & Chantelle M. Wells February 2 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 02 ) 0.67 When Jane and Rafael finally realize that the uncertain state of their relationship ( or lack of it ) is stressing out Mateo , they decide that they need to make a decision . Meanwhile , Petra is on the outs with Jane and Rafael after the Luisa fiasco , so she tries to figure out a way to get back into their good graces . Elsewhere , Rogelio and Xo are both contemplating their career choices . 74 10 `` Chapter Seventy - Four '' Gina Rodriguez Micah Schraft & Paul Sciarrotta February 9 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 09 ) 0.80 Jane and Rafael try to be friends , which works great until Jane goes on a date . Meanwhile , Petra and Jane 's new partnership is off to a rocky start , but they both know they have to find a way to work together somehow . Rogelio is convinced he has male post-partum depression , which puts him at odds with with celebrity Post-Partum Advocate River Fields ( guest star Brooke Shields ) on The Talk . Also , Alba finally confides in Jane why she turned down the marriage proposal , leaving Jane to help Alba in the romance department when Jane takes Alba to a sex store and buys her a vibrator . Elsewhere , Jane and Rafael agree to have sex , and Petra questions her own sexual identity when she starts to have sex dreams about Jane `` J.R. '' Ramos after the lawyer begins flirting with her . 75 11 `` Chapter Seventy - Five '' Gina Lamar Merigan Mulhern March 2 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 02 ) 0.59 Jane is ready to move on from the Marbella Hotel issues and pursue writing full time , but an unexpected development forces her to consider returning to her teaching roots . Xiomara decides to go back to school where she listens in on an art history class , while Jane teaches a seminar about writing . Here , Jane finds out Jonathan Chavez , her former advisor , is taking advantage of another student of his . While trying to warn the student , Jane accidentally grabs her breasts to avoid falling over and , as a result , does n't get the teaching job she was applying for . Meanwhile , Petra gets arrested for Anezka 's murder due to the blackmailer planting the screws in her apartment , leading Jane Ramos to tell Petra that she was framing her because she was being threatened by an unknown blackmailer . Also , Rafael and Jane continue their affair . Elsewhere , Rogelio tries to get Eva Longoria to join his Passions of Santos reboot , but instead finds out the two are distant cousins . 76 12 `` Chapter Seventy - Six '' Melanie Mayron Leah Longoria March 9 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 09 ) 0.58 Jane 's fixation on a negative review has left her with writer 's block , so Rogelio suggests she take a writing class to help . With the encouragement of Jane , Rafael is ready to dig into his past to find out who his real biological parents are . Meanwhile , Rogelio is trying to make things less about him and more about Xo , but he grows suspicious when he learns she is keeping a secret from him . But the secret Xo has been keeping is not what Rogelio suspected . Elsewhere , Petra tests the loyalty of her lawyer , Jane Ramos , by pretending to be romantically interested in her while trying to find out the identity of the blackmailer . After Petra confides in Jane R. of her feelings which are not fake , the two of them sleep together for the first time . 77 13 `` Chapter Seventy - Seven '' Gina Lamar Deirdre Shaw & Chantelle M. Wells March 16 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 16 ) 0.59 When Jane , Rogelio and Alba learn what is going on with Xo who might have breast cancer , they all try to comfort her , but Xo insists they let her live her life . Meanwhile , Rogelio finally gets River Fields to agree to meet with him , but he learns that River has another plan in mind . Also , Rafael is on a mission to find his sister , who may have the information he has been looking for of his origins . Rafael visits Rose in prison to ask for her help , but he quickly turns her down when she makes a demand to know Luisa 's location . Also , Jane is upset with Petra after her twin girls spill a secret to Mateo about the Tooth Fairy being make believe . At the same time , Jane ' J.R. ' Ramos tells Petra after their romantic night together that she is not interested in a relationship due to the blackmailer paying a visit to Jane R. 's dementia - stricken mother in a rest home . At the end , the identity of Jane R 's blackmailer is finally revealed . 78 14 `` Chapter Seventy - Eight '' Justin Baldoni Valentina Garza & Micah Schraft March 23 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 23 ) 0.65 Xo struggles to make an important decision on whether or not to get a full mastectomy and looks to Jane for guidance , leaving Rogelio feeling like an outsider . Alba is frustrated with Rogelio when it seems he is once again making his career a priority over Xo 's well being . Meanwhile , Petra turns to Rafael for advice on her love life after he finally learns about her new romance with J.R. 79 15 `` Chapter Seventy - Nine '' Gina Lamar Paul Sciarrotta April 6 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 06 ) 0.53 80 16 `` Chapter Eighty '' Micah Schraft Micah Schraft April 13 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 13 ) 0.57 Jane and Rafael start saving up to buy a one - bedroom apartment , but their plan falls apart when Mateo breaks an antique $4,000 clock . Rafael moves into the Villanueva house , but after Alba hits Mateo , the two get into a heated argument and Rafael moves back out . Xiomara starts chemotherapy , and makes a friend named Donna . The timeline moves forward nine weeks , and Donna dies of unforeseen consequences . Xiomara is shown not to be doing well due to the chemotherapy , Alba and Rafael are still in a fight and River and Rogelio are still arguing over the Passions of Santos adaptation . Alba breaks down to Jane , and she and Rafael make up . Xiomara bonds with River over telenovelas , after she accidentally eats a pot brownie , and she agrees to do the Passions of Steve and Brenda the Latin American way . Jane Ramos gets herself disbarred , and as a result gets the case against Petra thrown out . 81 17 `` Chapter Eighty - One '' Gina Lamar Jennie Snyder Urman & Paul Sciarrotta April 20 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 20 ) 0.58 Rafael intends to propose to Jane , however Rose 's news unsettles him . Alba becomes a citizen and the Villanueva 's throw her a surprise party . Jane Ramos and Petra plan to move in together , until Jane finds out that Petra killed Anezka . As she walks out , Krishna tells her that her life is in danger . J.R. saves Petra 's life by shooting , and killing , the blackmailer . As Jane meets Rafael , Michael is revealed to be alive .