Character Played by Description Roger Wayne White A large , green monster that invaded the playhouse , he resembled a giant eyeball , had two mouths and one leg , and spoke in a language incomprehensible to Pee - wee until he wished he could understand the monster ( at which point he learned his name in English ) . During this episode , Roger talked to his mother on the Picturephone ; during the conversation , Roger 's mother said the Secret Word in their language , at which point they both screamed while a bunch of symbols appeared on the screen . At the end of the episode , Roger left the playhouse with Pee - wee on the back of Pee - wee 's scooter . Roger made his second appearance in the `` Pajama Party '' episode . Rusty Calvert DeForest A strange old man , he hung out with the Playhouse Gang in the first season - and acted exactly like them , if not more childish . Oddly enough , he wears a `` Playboy '' pin on his hat , among others . Yvona Lynne Marie Stewart An alien , she was captured by Zyzzybalubah and locked in a cage as his personal slave . She bears a striking facial and bodily resemblance to Miss Yvonne and has similar theme music . It is implied by her in `` Playhouse in Outer Space '' that Zyzzy has kept Yvona as his slave for years ( when she says `` It 's always been like this . '' ) . Pee - wee seems to develop feelings for her , probably due to her similarities to Miss Yvonne , for whom he also had apparent feelings . Zyzzybalubah George McGrath A malevolent alien , he hypnotized Conky into making his own name the secret word and launched the playhouse into space . He calls anyone he captures his `` friend '' , but Pee - wee sets him straight . Dr. Jinga Janga Bernard Fox The genie doctor whom Pee - wee called when Jambi fell ill , he helped Pee - wee learn to appreciate Jambi and others . Authorized Conky Repairman Johnny Wilson Jimmy Smits He fixed problems with Conky , the playhouse robot . Rhonda Sandra Bernhard The Picturephone operator , she has a crush on Pee - wee . Derek Steve James Reba 's boyfriend , a fireman , he was going to take Reba to the firemen 's ball , but after it got canceled because of a fire at the ballroom itself , they do not know where else to go . So , Pee - wee allows Derek and Reba to have their date right there at the playhouse ; they played `` drive - in '' , with Magic Screen as the screen and Pee - wee and Miss Yvonne as Derek and Reba 's chaperones ( possibly for a double date ) .