Openness to experience ( inventive / curious vs. consistent / cautious ) . Appreciation for art , emotion , adventure , unusual ideas , curiosity , and variety of experience . Openness reflects the degree of intellectual curiosity , creativity and a preference for novelty and variety a person has . It is also described as the extent to which a person is imaginative or independent and depicts a personal preference for a variety of activities over a strict routine . High openness can be perceived as unpredictability or lack of focus , and more likely to engage in risky behaviour or drug taking . Also , individuals that have high openness tend to lean towards being artists or writers in regards to being creative and appreciate of the significance of the intellectual and artistic pursuits . Moreover , individuals with high openness are said to pursue self - actualization specifically by seeking out intense , euphoric experiences . Conversely , those with low openness seek to gain fulfillment through perseverance and are characterized as pragmatic and data - driven -- sometimes even perceived to be dogmatic and closed - minded . Some disagreement remains about how to interpret and contextualize the openness factor . Conscientiousness ( efficient / organized vs. easy - going / careless ) . A tendency to be organized and dependable , show self - discipline , act dutifully , aim for achievement , and prefer planned rather than spontaneous behavior . High conscientiousness is often perceived as stubbornness and obsession . Low conscientiousness is associated with flexibility and spontaneity , but can also appear as sloppiness and lack of reliability . Extraversion ( outgoing / energetic vs. solitary / reserved ) . Energy , positive emotions , surgency , assertiveness , sociability and the tendency to seek stimulation in the company of others , and talkativeness . High extraversion is often perceived as attention - seeking , and domineering . Low extraversion causes a reserved , reflective personality , which can be perceived as aloof or self - absorbed . Extroverted people tend to be more dominant in social settings , opposed to introverted people who may act more shy and reserved in this setting . Agreeableness ( friendly / compassionate vs. challenging / detached ) . A tendency to be compassionate and cooperative rather than suspicious and antagonistic towards others . It is also a measure of one 's trusting and helpful nature , and whether a person is generally well - tempered or not . High agreeableness is often seen as naive or submissive . Low agreeableness personalities are often competitive or challenging people , which can be seen as argumentative or untrustworthy . Neuroticism ( sensitive / nervous vs. secure / confident ) . Neuroticism identifies certain people who are more prone to psychological stress . The tendency to experience unpleasant emotions easily , such as anger , anxiety , depression , and vulnerability . Neuroticism also refers to the degree of emotional stability and impulse control and is sometimes referred to by its low pole , `` emotional stability '' . A high stability manifests itself as a stable and calm personality , but can be seen as uninspiring and unconcerned . A low stability expresses as a reactive and excitable personality , often very dynamic individuals , but they can be perceived as unstable or insecure . It has also been researched that individuals with higher levels of tested neuroticism tend to have worse psychological well being .