No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) 47 `` Senior Year , Baby '' Stuart Gillard Jennie Snyder Urman September 13 , 2010 ( 2010 - 09 - 13 ) 1.96 Beverly Hills is rocked by an earthquake during the first day of the school year . Naomi has spent the summer in isolation , dealing with the aftermath of her rape by Mr. Cannon and keeping it a secret . Annie and Dixon are dealing with the absence of their father who has walked out on the family , while Debbie tries to hold the family together without Harry and a job . Meanwhile , Teddy and Silver find themselves happier than ever until he suffers a leg injury that could end his tennis career forever . Annie applies for an internship at a local theater company called the Abbott Playhouse . Navid welcomes Adrianna back from her tour with Javier , but their arrival brings an unexpected death . Ivy returns from Australia with her an old childhood friend , named Oscar , which makes Dixon uncomfortable . Elsewhere , Annie and Liam confront their feelings for each other . 48 `` Age of Inheritance '' Liz Friedlander Padma L. Atluri September 20 , 2010 ( 2010 - 09 - 20 ) 1.83 After turning eighteen , Naomi finds out she can now access the money in her large trust fund , so she decides to throw herself a huge birthday party at the Beach Club where she hires the Honey Brothers band to perform . Meanwhile , Dixon , Navid , and Teddy decide to take Oscar out for a night on the town , but their party ends when Ivy finds a Facebook photo of a drunk Dixon doing a body shot off a girl . Annie has an instant connection with Charlie , a guy she meets at a coffee shop . Jen is forced to go on bed rest until she delivers the baby and has no choice but to allow Ryan into her life . Elsewhere , Adrianna uses Javier 's song book to get back in good favor with the label . Entourage 's Adrian Grenier performs with his band at Naomi 's birthday party . 49 `` 2021 Vision '' Millicent Shelton Tod Himmel September 27 , 2010 ( 2010 - 09 - 27 ) 1.96 Naomi has constant flashbacks to her rape and begins taking sleeping pills in order to sleep through the night . Mr. Cannon invites Silver over to his apartment to watch his new documentary and slips something in her drink . Meanwhile , Teddy wakes up from a night of drinking and realizes he hooked up with someone , but does not remember who . Dixon learns that Ivy is a virgin . At her intern job , Annie confronts her boss , Katherine , about her awkward behavior and is shocked when she makes Annie an offer she may not be able to refuse . Adrianna sings another song stolen out of Javier 's songbook at his memorial service , but she soon regrets it when a video of her music number goes viral . 50 `` The Bachelors '' David Warren David S. Rosenthal October 4 , 2010 ( 2010 - 10 - 04 ) 1.79 Silver plans a cancer - awareness charity event to honor her late mother and enlists the boys to appear in a bachelor auction . Ian , a theater student at West Bev , is brought in to help choreograph a dance number for the auction , but all comes to a stand - still when Teddy directs some negative words toward him . The two later get into a fight . Meanwhile , Annie and Adrianna discover the truth about Naomi and Mr. Cannon from Silver . Elsewhere , Annie discovers Debbie 's money problems since Harry walked out on her and decides to take Katherine 's offer . A surprising connection between Charlie and Liam is revealed . Javier 's uncle , Victor , begins to blackmail Adrianna with exposure by forcing her to work for him . Also , Ivy and Dixon decide to spend the night together , but Dixon hits the brakes when his ex-girlfriend , Sasha , returns with some life - altering news . 51 5 `` Catch Me If You Cannon '' Jim Conway Terrence Coli October 11 , 2010 ( 2010 - 10 - 11 ) 1.81 Silver , Naomi , and Adrianna craft a plan to seduce Mr. Cannon to prove he raped Naomi , but they underestimate his ability to control the situation . Teddy and Ian are forced to do manual labor as a punishment for fighting . Dixon fears for his life and pushes Ivy away , leading her straight into the arms of Oscar ( just as he planned the whole time for ) . Meanwhile , Jen looks for a new assistant and Debbie applies for the job . Debbie also finds out about the arrangement between Annie and Katherine and forbids Annie from fulfilling it . 52 6 `` How Much Is That Liam in the Window '' Stuart Gillard David S. Rosenthal & Jennie Snyder Urman October 25 , 2010 ( 2010 - 10 - 25 ) 2.03 When Jen and Ryan find out about Naomi 's rape , Jen decides to take matters into her own hands , while Ryan 's job may be in jeopardy when he encourages Naomi to come forward with him as a witness despite the fact that his own secret about accidentally wrecking the school sign will be revealed . Adrianna 's manager , Victor , continues to blackmail her and goes even further when he encourages her to go topless at a photo - shoot . Annie discovers a darker side of Charlie when she sneaks in to observe a staged reading of his play . Liam lands a job modeling in the window of a clothing store and receives a job opportunity from a mysterious customer , named Laura , that he ca n't refuse . Dixon apologizes to Ivy unaware that she decided to lose her virginity to someone else . Also , Oscar confronts Ivy and Laurel about his shocking past . 53 7 `` I See London , I See France ... '' Krishna Rao Scott Weinger November 1 , 2010 ( 2010 - 11 - 01 ) 2.00 Ryan helps Naomi press charges against Mr. Cannon and as a result , both Mr. Cannon and Ryan are suspended from their jobs . Oscar has a run - in with Mr. Cannon and unintentionally helps Naomi with her case when he sets his sights on her as his next conquest . Navid finds out that his father is employing an underage girl in his pornography business . Meanwhile , Ivy tells Dixon what happened between her and Oscar , which he predictably does not take well . Teddy struggles with rumors and innuendo about his suspected impotency . Liam continues his job of carrying purses for Laura , until he finds out that she is a drug dealer running a business right out of her mother 's own house . Elsewhere , Navid and Silver attend the Achievement Awards dinner while Annie , Teddy , Liam , Dixon , Ivy and Ian attend an under - achievement ceremony , called `` The Undies '' , at the Beach Club . 54 8 `` Mother Dearest '' Oz Scott Paul Sciarrotta November 8 , 2010 ( 2010 - 11 - 08 ) 1.89 Annie and Dixon drive to Pomona to visit their father , but unexpectedly meet a young woman at his door making them leave without seeing Harry . Later , Debbie tells Annie and Dixon that she knows all about the younger woman living with Harry whom is his new wife . The Wilson family decides to move on by removing all traces Harry 's existence from the house and their lives and from then on live as if Harry never existed . After a series of mishaps with her baby , Jen leaves Jacques with Ryan and leaves town . Ivy and Naomi join forces to humiliate and take down Oscar . Meanwhile , Navid asks Silver to help prove that his father is lying to him about employing underage girls at his studio by asking Silver to go undercover . Also , Victor demands Adrianna attend a red carpet event with Joe Jonas , rather than Navid . 55 9 `` They 're Playing Her Song '' Rob Hardy Jennie Snyder Urman & Jenna Lamia November 15 , 2010 ( 2010 - 11 - 15 ) 1.76 Teddy decides to visit a gay bar in West Hollywood , but is forced to turn to Ian for help when he forgets his wallet . Meanwhile , Annie is ready to take her relationship with Charlie to the next level , but is mortified when his college friends catch a glimpse of her in lingerie . Meanwhile , Ryan turns to Debbie for parental advice , and the two end up hooking up . Navid deals with the fallout at school and at home after turning his father in to the authorities . Also , Adrianna continues to be oblivious to Navid 's situation due to her newfound fame . 56 10 `` Best Lei 'd Plans '' David Warren David S. Rosenthal & Deborah Schoeneman November 29 , 2010 ( 2010 - 11 - 29 ) 2.01 Naomi jumps back into the dating world and tries to impress one of Ivy 's surfer friends , Zach , by pretending to know how to surf . Still upset with her mother over the Oscar situation , Ivy decides to build a relationship with her estranged father . Not knowing she has feelings for Ryan , Annie and Dixon sign Debbie up for an online dating service . While at the beach luau , Teddy gets jealous when he sees Ian with another guy and allows his feelings to control his actions . Meanwhile , Adrianna and Navid 's relationship becomes strained , leading him into the arms of Silver . Elsewhere , Liam learns more about Laura and of her ex-boyfriend whom he attempts to make jealous in her favor . 57 11 `` Holiday Madness '' Dennis Smith Rebecca Sinclair December 6 , 2010 ( 2010 - 12 - 06 ) 2.18 Adrianna leases an expensive new house and throws a housewarming Christmas party to celebrate her new record deal . After having enough of her egotistical attitude , Victor decides to reveal Adrianna 's secret on the Internet . Annie spends the night with Liam when he comes back from the hospital , and the two rekindle their romance . Ivy 's father 's unexpected intentions lead her to reconcile with her mother . After deciding to keep their relationship a secret , Ian and Teddy kiss unaware that Dixon saw them . Meanwhile , Navid and Silver confess their true feelings towards each other ... and share a kiss . Elsewhere , Naomi continues to reject Oscar 's advances whom tries to ask her out on a date to the Christmas party . Naomi attends solo and later returns home not knowing that Mr. Cannon is awaiting her . 58 12 `` Liars '' Stuart Gillard Tod Himmel January 24 , 2011 ( 2011 - 01 - 24 ) 1.69 Naomi is taken hostage in her apartment by an out - of - control Mr. Cannon who also lures Silver into the situation . Meanwhile , Annie and Dixon 's cousin Emily from Kansas comes to town for an extended visit , but Emily immediately gets on Annie 's nerves . Dixon confronts Teddy about his kiss with Ian and promises to keep his secret . Ivy has a near fatal accident during surf practice that makes her question her ability to compete in the surf competition . Adrianna 's world continues to crumble when she appears on a talk show to tell her side of the story , and she is blindsided by a surprise guest when Victor appears to give `` his '' side of the story . Given Adrianna 's disastrous situation , Navid and Silver continue to keep their hook - ups a secret . 59 13 `` It 's Getting Hot in Here '' Liz Friedlander David S. Rosenthal January 31 , 2011 ( 2011 - 01 - 31 ) 1.67 Naomi , Adrianna , Silver , and Annie decide to have a girls ' weekend and head to a yoga retreat in Ojai . Annie attempts to be a good cousin and invites Emily along for the weekend but confronts her about being a downer on the trip . Emily begins to show her true devious colors when she purposefully neglects to wake Annie up for a sweat lodge session and uses the opportunity to manipulate and turn the rest of the girls against Annie . Naomi , who originally thought the retreat was silly , suddenly decides to extend her stay as a way to recover from her encounter with Mr. Cannon . Silver runs into Navid at the retreat , and the two have a secret rendezvous . Adrianna returns from the retreat and calls a tabloid newspaper to sell an exclusive story . Back in Beverly Hills , Debbie plans a romantic dinner at her house for Ryan , but they are interrupted by Dixon , forcing Ryan to quickly find a place to hide . Elsewhere , Charlie finally realizes that Annie has feelings for Liam , and leaves to study abroad in France . 60 14 `` All About a Boy '' Harry Sinclair Paul Sciarrotta February 7 , 2011 ( 2011 - 02 - 07 ) 1.75 Navid breaks up with Adrianna after learning how she used the baby she gave up for adoption to sell a story to a tabloid news magazine . Adrianna then leans on Silver for support and makes a shocking discovery . Meanwhile , Annie gets the opportunity to audition for a play but Emily sabotages her by letting it slip about Debbie 's romance with Ryan . Teddy is being blackmailed and is surprised to find out who is behind it . At Ian 's encouragement , Teddy decides to come out to his friends . Naomi returns from her spiritual retreat and decides to throw a party for Guru Sona but realizes that she may not be the person she thinks she is . Also , Ivy has reservations about getting back in the water after her accident . 61 15 `` Revenge with the Nerd '' Millicent Shelton Terrence Coli February 14 , 2011 ( 2011 - 02 - 14 ) 1.37 Dixon and Navid convince a music producer to shoot a music video for Nelly at Shirazi Studios to keep the struggling studio in business . Adrianna 's suspicions about Navid having cheated on her are confirmed , and she informs Silver about her plot for revenge . Meanwhile , Emily attempts to distract Annie in an effort to seduce Liam . Teddy turns to Silver for support after coming out and his breakup with Ian . Elsewhere , reality producers follow Adrianna and her friends around trying to shoot a pilot , and Naomi is surprised by her reaction to a nerdy lab partner , Max , who helps her out with Guru Sona . 62 16 `` It 's High Time '' Krishna Rao Padma Alturi February 21 , 2011 ( 2011 - 02 - 21 ) 1.52 The crafty and manipulative Emily continues to cause mayhem in Annie 's life by messing with Liam , her friends , and maliciously gets Annie fired from her internship at the Abbott Playhouse and even goes as far as to provoke Annie into physically attacking her to get her suspended from school . Annie eventually realizes that no one will believe her about the not - so - innocent and no - good Emily 's true nature and begins to work on a plan to defeat Emily at her own game . Meanwhile , Silver convinces Navid to sign the release for Adrianna 's TV reality show to help distract her from their secret relationship . Naomi keeps her feelings for Max to herself . Ivy meets a new guy , named Raj , and they strike up a friendship over their use of medical marijuana . Elsewhere , Dixon , Navid , and Liam take Teddy out on the town to show that they are trying to accept him after his coming out . After watching footage from her Christmas party , Adrianna makes a stunning realization . 63 17 `` Blue Naomi '' Elizabeth Allen David S. Rosenthal February 28 , 2011 ( 2011 - 02 - 28 ) 1.45 Naomi attempts to impress Max by dressing up in an Avatar costume , but it does n't get the response that she was aiming for . Dixon and Navid formalize their partnership , and a chance encounter with Snoop Dogg could mean good news for them and Shirazi Studios 2.0 . Adrianna 's vindictive ways deepen after discovering the truth about Navid and Silver 's romance , and she vows to get back at both of them . Meanwhile , Annie and Liam secretly work together to expose Emily for the cynical person that she really is to everyone . As a result , Emily decides to leave town , but does n't tell Debbie of the reason why she is leaving . Elsewhere , Raj confides in Ivy about his past , revealing a shocking secret . 64 18 `` The Enchanted Donkey '' David Paymer Story by : Rebecca Sinclair Teleplay by : Rebecca Sinclair & Paul Sciarrotta April 18 , 2011 ( 2011 - 04 - 18 ) 1.72 The group decides to spend spring break in Mexico , where things get out of control for everyone . Naomi brings along Max on the ruse that she intends to ask him for further tutoring with schoolwork . Annie and Liam spend quality time together to take in the scenery until an accident confines Annie to their hotel room . Teddy runs into Tripp , his former boarding school roommate and crush . Ivy uses the time to keep distant from Raj after thinking that he may die soon and confides in Dixon about her recent problems . Meanwhile , the rift between Silver and Adrianna comes to a shocking head . 65 19 `` Nerdy Little Secrets '' Harry Sinclair David Rosenberg April 25 , 2011 ( 2011 - 04 - 25 ) 1.74 Naomi becomes tired and more insecure of hiding her relationship with Max and , afraid that he might be cheating on her , follows him to an academic decathlon event to confront him , but soon regrets what happens . Navid becomes worried when Silver begins to behave erratically after Adrianna secretly swipes Silver 's bipolar medication . Meanwhile , Annie forms a bond with Marla Templeton , a veteran actress whom she is hired to work for . Elsewhere , Raj helps Ivy get over her fear of getting into the water again . 66 20 `` Women on the Verge '' Stuart Gillard Scott Weinger & Jenna Lamia May 2 , 2011 ( 2011 - 05 - 02 ) 1.47 After receiving some distressing news , Silver has an emotional breakdown , causing Navid and Dixon to stage an intervention . Meanwhile , Annie persuades Marla to attend a Hollywood movie re-release premiere of one of her old films after Marla confides in Annie about her serious health problems . When Teddy discovers Marco has been lying to him , he begins to question if Marco is cheating on him , but learns that Marco is actually hiding something else . Naomi learns that Max was accepted to a college in a different state , while Ryan has an unexpected visitor when Jen Clark returns . 67 21 `` The Prom Before the Storm '' Mike Listo David Rosenthal & Terrence Coli May 9 , 2011 ( 2011 - 05 - 09 ) 1.43 Just as everyone is preparing for the upcoming senior prom , Annie and Dixon receive some devastating news concerning their futures when they are told by Debbie that she can not afford to send them to private universities . Meanwhile , Ivy discovers that Raj 's health has taken a turn for the worse . Elsewhere , Adrianna takes the opportunity to try to rekindle her relationship with Navid while Silver is hospitalized in a psych ward following her relapse with her bipolar disorder . Silver begins to figure out that Adrianna may have swiped her medication , but has difficulty convincing Navid . Also , Naomi and Max 's relationship is tested to the limit when she finds out he cheated on a paper for her . Elsewhere , Jen tries to win Ryan back by wanting him to move to Paris with her . 68 22 `` To the Future ! '' Rebecca Sinclair Rebecca Sinclair & Paul Sciarotta May 16 , 2011 ( 2011 - 05 - 16 ) 1.64 As graduation looms , Naomi makes a decision that could prevent her from graduating with her class when she takes all the blame for cheating on her term paper to save Max from getting in trouble with her . Meanwhile , Liam tells Annie that he does n't want to go to college with her , and Adrianna is ostrized from the group when they accidentally find out her scheme to get revenge on Silver . The next day , an impromptu wedding takes place as Raj and Ivy get married in a traditional Indian ceremony . Among the group , only Ivy 's mother , Laurel , disapproves of Ivy 's sudden choice to get married for she is aware of Raj 's failing health . Also , Debbie , feeling that there is nothing in California for her anymore , decides to move on with her life by moving to Paris with Ryan . At the end , Naomi visits Max at his house where she tells him that she is pregnant .