Matthew Broderick as Simba , son of Mufasa and Sarabi , King of the Pride Lands and Kiara 's father . Cam Clarke provided his singing voice . Ian Harrowell served as the supervising animator for Simba . Neve Campbell as Kiara , daughter of Simba and Nala . Liz Callaway provided adult Kiara 's singing voice . Lianne Hughes served as the supervising animator for Kiara . Michelle Horn voiced young Kiara , while Charity Sanoy provided her singing voice and Ashley Edner provided her lion growls . Jason Marsden as Kovu , Zira 's son and Nuka and Vitani 's younger brother . Gene Miller provided Kovu 's singing voice . Andrew Collins served as the supervising animator for Kovu . Ryan O'Donohue provided the voice of young Kovu . Suzanne Pleshette as Zira , the leader of the Outsiders , Scar 's most loyal follower and the mother of Nuka , Vitani , and Kovu . Kevin Peaty served as the supervising animator for Zira . Moira Kelly as Nala , Queen of the Pride Lands , Simba 's mate and Kiara 's mother . Ian Harrowell served as the supervising animator for Nala . Andy Dick as Nuka , Zira 's son , Vitani and Kovu 's older brother and the oldest male of Zira 's family . Ian Harrowell served as the supervising animator for Nuka . Nathan Lane as Timon , a wise - cracking and self - absorbed yet somewhat loyal meerkat who is Pumbaa and Simba 's best friend . Bob Baxter served as the supervising animator for Timon . Ernie Sabella as Pumbaa , a naïve warthog who suffers from flatulence and is Timon 's and Simba 's best friend . Bob Baxter served as the supervising animator for Pumbaa . Robert Guillaume as Rafiki , the mandrill shaman of The Pride Lands . Bob Baxter served as the supervising animator for Rafiki . Jennifer Lien as Vitani , Zira 's daughter and Nuka and Kovu 's sister . Kevin Peaty served as the supervising animator for Vitani . Lacey Chabert voiced young Vitani while Crysta Macalush provided her singing voice . Edward Hibbert as Zazu , a hornbill who serves as the king 's majordomo . Bob Baxter served as the supervising animator for Zazu . James Earl Jones as Mufasa , Simba 's father and the previous King of the Pride Lands . Jim Cummings as Scar , Mufasa 's younger brother , Simba 's uncle and Kiara 's great - uncle , who appears in a brief cameo .