Under legislation passed by the Knesset , evacuated settlers were to be compensated for the loss of their homes , lands , and businesses . Originally , the law only allowed anyone age 21 or over who had lived in one of the evacuated settlements for over five consecutive years to be compensated , but the Israeli Supreme Court ruled that compensation for younger settlers should also be included in compensation payments to evacuated families . Settlers who lived in the area for at least two years were eligible for more money . The Israeli government offered bonuses to settlers who moved to the Galilee or Negev , and implemented a program in which settlers had the option to build their own homes , with the option of a rental grant . The Housing Ministry doubled the number of apartments available in the Negev . Farmers were offered farmland or plots of land on which to build a home , in exchange for reduced compensation . Land was to be compensated at a rate of $50,000 per dunam ( approximately $202,000 per acre ) , with homes being compensated at a rate per square meter . Workers who lost their jobs were eligible for unemployment benefits ranging from minimum wage to twice the average salary , for up to six months . Workers aged 50 to 55 were offered years ' worth of unemployment benefits , and those over 55 were eligible for a pension until age 67 . A special category was created for communities that moved en masse , with the government funding the replacement of communal buildings . In cases where communities did not stay together and communal property was lost , individuals would receive compensation for donations made to those buildings . Taxes on compensation sums given to business owners were reduced from ten to five percent . The total cost of the compensation package as adopted by the Knesset was 3.8 billion NIS ( approximately $870 million ) . Following an increase in the number of compensation claims after the disengagement , another 1.5 billion NIS ( approximately $250 million ) was added . In 2007 , a further $125 million was added to the compensation budget . Approximately $176 million was to be paid directly to the evacuees , $66 million to private business owners , and the rest was allocated to finance the government 's pullout - related expenses . Yitzhak Meron , the lawyer who represented the evacuees , in dealing with the government offices , recently ( 11.08. 2014 ) described how this came about , as well as his perception of the situation .