Pierce Brosnan as James Bond , 007 . Sophie Marceau as Elektra King , an oil heiress who is seemingly being targeted by Renard , the world 's most wanted terrorist . Bond is tasked by M to protect her at all costs , although he suspects that there is more to her than meets the eye . Robert Carlyle as Victor `` Renard '' Zokas , a former KGB agent turned high - tech terrorist . Years ago , Renard kidnapped Elektra King in exchange for a massive ransom demand . The ordeal resulted in a failed assassination attempt by MI6 and left Renard with a bullet lodged in his brain which renders him impervious to pain as well as slowly killing off his other senses . Renard now seeks revenge on both the King family and MI6 . Denise Richards as Dr. Christmas Jones , an American nuclear physicist assisting Bond in his mission . Richards stated that she liked the role because it was `` brainy '' , `` athletic '' , and had `` depth of character , in contrast to Bond girls from previous decades '' . Richards stated that a lot of viewers `` made fun of '' the character 's attire but that `` These Bond girls are so outrageous and if I did really look like a scientist , the Bond fans would have been disappointed . '' Writer Ben Bussey stated in a Yahoo ! Movies article that `` it 's clear that Eon were never aiming especially high with this character '' since the company `` reportedly '' auditioned Geri Halliwell and Tiffani Thiessen for the role . Robbie Coltrane as Valentin Zukovsky : A former Russian mafia boss and Baku casino owner . Bond initially seeks out Zukovsky for intel on Renard and is subsequently aided by him when Zukovsky 's nephew falls into Renard 's captivity . Coltrane reprises his role from GoldenEye . Judi Dench as M : The head of MI6 . Michael Kitchen as Bill Tanner : M 's Chief of Staff . Colin Salmon as Charles Robinson : M 's Deputy Chief of Staff . Desmond Llewelyn as Q : MI6 's `` quartermaster '' who supplies Bond with multi-purpose vehicles and gadgets useful for the latter 's mission . The film would be Llewelyn 's final performance as Q. Although the actor was not officially retiring from the role , the Q character was training his eventual replacement in this film . Llewelyn was killed in a car accident shortly after the film 's premiere . John Cleese as R : Q 's assistant and successor . The character is never formally introduced as `` R '' -- This was simply an observation on Bond 's part : `` If you 're Q ... does that make him R ? '' Samantha Bond as Miss Moneypenny : M 's secretary Serena Scott Thomas as Dr. Molly Warmflash . John Seru as Gabor : Elektra King 's bodyguard who is seen accompanying King wherever she travels . Ulrich Thomsen as Sasha Davidov : Elektra King 's head of security in Azerbaijan and Renard 's secret liaison . Goldie as Bull : Valentin Zukovsky 's gold - toothed bodyguard . Although listed as ' Bull ' in the credits , Zukovsky refers to him as ' Bullion ' in the film . Maria Grazia Cucinotta as Giulietta da Vinci , credited in the film as `` Cigar Girl '' : An experienced assassin working for Renard . David Calder as Sir Robert King : Elektra 's father and an oil tycoon who is later killed during a bomb attack on MI6 headquarters . Sean Cronin as Renard 's Henchman ( uncredited )