Percussion ignition Turret ship -- Although designs for a rotating gun turret date back to the late 18th century , the HMS Trusty was the first warship to be outfitted with one . Battle Tank / The tank -- Developed and first used in combat by the British during World War I as a means to break the deadlock of trench warfare . Attributed to Ernest Dunlop Swinton Fighter aircraft -- The Vickers F.B. 5 Gunbus of 1914 was the first of its kind . Congreve rocket -- William Congreve Harrier Jump Jet -- VTOL ( Vertical Take Off and Landing aircraft ) Aircraft Carrier -- HMS Argus ( I49 ) Dreadnought Battleship -- HMS Dreadnought ( 1906 ) Bailey Bridge -- Donald Bailey Chobham armour Livens Projector -- William Howard Livens H2S radar ( airborne radar to aid bomb targeting ) -- Alan Blumlein Bouncing bomb -- Barnes Wallis Safety fuse -- William Bickford Fairbairn - Sykes Fighting Knife -- William Ewart Fairbairn and Eric A. Sykes Armstrong Gun -- Sir William Armstrong High explosive squash head -- Sir Charles Dennistoun Burney Nuclear fission chain reaction -- Leo Szilard whilst crossing the road near Russell Square . Shrapnel shell -- Henry Shrapnel Bullpup firearm configuration -- Thorneycroft carbine Puckle Gun -- James Puckle The side by side Boxlock action , AKA The double barreled shotgun -- Anson and Deeley Stun grenades -- Invented by the SAS in the 1960s . Smokeless propellant to replace gunpowder with the use of Cordite -- Frederick Abel Rubber bullet and Plastic bullet -- Developed by the Ministry of Defence during The Troubles in Northern Ireland . Depth charge Torpedo -- Robert Whitehead The Whitworth rifle , considered the first sniper rifle . During the American Civil War the Whitworth rifle had been known to kill at ranges of about 800 yards -- Sir Joseph Whitworth The world 's first practical underwater active sound detection apparatus , the ASDIC Active Sonar -- Developed by Canadian physicist Robert William Boyle and English physicist Albert Beaumont Wood The first self - powered machine gun Maxim gun -- Sir Hiram Maxim , Although the Inventor is American , the Maxim gun was financed by Albert Vickers of Vickers Limited company and produced in Hatton Garden London Steam catapult - Commander Colin C. Mitchell RNVR Special forces -- SAS Founded by Sir David Stirling .