No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) 31 `` The Door to Freedom '' Steve Miner Lizzy Weiss January 7 , 2013 ( 2013 - 01 - 07 ) 1.70 Life is shaken up once again for the Kennish - Vasquez family when a woman from Angelo 's past surfaces , claiming to be pregnant with his baby . However , only Bay and Toby know . Kathryn urges John to consider running as the Republican Party candidate for the Kansas State Senate . Meanwhile , Bay is accused of cheating on her French exam and decides to attend Carlton . Daphne is still upset after all that happened with Jeff and snaps at Travis . She later apologizes and the twosome plot to start up a food truck business of Daphne 's very own . Title reference : From the c. 1936 painting , La clef des champs ( English title : The Door to Freedom ) , by René Magritte . 32 `` The Awakening Conscience '' Fred Gerber Joy Gregory & Bekah Brunstetter January 14 , 2013 ( 2013 - 01 - 14 ) 1.65 Bay enrolls in an experimental immersion program at Carlton for hearing students who have been learning sign language . She meets Teo , a fellow program participant , and finds herself on the outs with Natalie , who bullies her because she is hearing . John and Kathryn inform the family of John 's plans to run for state senate . Elsewhere , Toby embarks on a romance with Nikki , but pulls back after Emmett shows him a distasteful picture of her on the internet . Angelo tells Regina about his possible unborn child and Regina has a run - in with Lana , the other woman , in an elevator . Daphne opens her food truck for business , but is uncomfortable with decisions John is trying to make for her . A boy from her old neighborhood is upset when Daphne brings her truck to East Riverside . Title reference : From the 1853 painting , The Awakening Conscience , by William Holman Hunt . 33 `` Duel of Two Women '' John Behring Anne Kenney January 21 , 2013 ( 2013 - 01 - 21 ) 1.74 Regina tells Adriana and Daphne about Angelo and Lana 's baby - to - be . Daphne takes it in stride and is supportive of Regina , suggesting a spa weekend for the two of them , paid for from her food truck profits . Bay finds herself on the wrong end of Natalie 's wrath , forcing Melody to take everyone on a Tolerance Retreat to help bridge the divide between them . Bay bonds with Noah , who confides to her that he has Meniere 's Disease , having already lost 60 % hearing in his right ear , and is in the Pilot Program at Carlton so that he can learn to sign before he loses the rest of his hearing . Regina finds out from her new doctor that she has osteonecrosis in her right wrist and can never sign , paint , or be a hairdresser again , which leads to a falling - out with Melody , who thinks Regina is faking to get sympathy . Daphne tells Noah how upset she feels about her mom not being able to sign with her anymore . She asks him if he can imagine losing the ability to communicate with someone , but Noah passes on the opportunity to tell her that he has Meniere 's Disease . However , he helps her understand her mother 's point of view and stop being angry at her . After the retreat , Bay and Natalie declare a truce . Emmett is jealous of Bay 's friendship with Noah and says he ( Emmett ) ca n't be friends with Bay any more because it hurts too much to not be with her . Meanwhile , Kathryn possibly hurts John 's campaign during a radio interview by mentioning John 's views on ( legal ) immigration , which John 's political enemies use against him by claiming he is for illegal immigration . John believes he can win by staying away from specific issues before the election , and tells Kathryn to keep quiet about political issues from now on . Toby bonds with Lana and finds out that she is planning to give up her baby for adoption as she is in medical school and her family are all in Boston . Toby points out that she does have local family , his sister , Bay , who is also the baby 's sister . Title reference : From the 1636 painting , Duel of Two Women , by Jusepe de Ribera . 34 `` Dressing for the Charade '' Melanie Mayron Chad Fiveash & James Stoteraux January 28 , 2013 ( 2013 - 01 - 28 ) 1.76 Daphne gets the truth from Travis 's mother regarding his so - called problems at home . Regina runs into an old friend while out with Kathryn . John sees an attack ad on his campaign involving his wife 's radio interview . Toby brings Lana to the Kennish house for dinner and she lets something slip to an immigration social worker about carrying Angelo 's baby . Title reference : From the 1886 painting , Dressing for the Charade : The Children of Patrick Allan Fraser , by Robert Herdman . 35 5 `` The Acquired Inability to Escape '' Zetna Fuentes Joy Gregory & Henry Robles February 4 , 2013 ( 2013 - 02 - 04 ) 1.79 Daphne takes on more than she can handle while venturing into new territory . Toby goes to his grandfather hoping for a college recommendation . Kathryn volunteers to direct a play at Carlton . Title reference : From the 1991 sculpture , The Acquired Inability to Escape , by Damien Hirst . 36 6 `` Human / Need / Desire '' Norman Buckley Lizzy Weiss & Bekah Brunstetter February 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 02 - 11 ) 1.65 Bay hosts an anti-Valentine's Day party and invites her hearing and deaf friends , leading Noah and Travis to get into a heated argument . Angelo and Lana agree to a truce to chaperone the party . Regina butts heads with John and Kathryn over how to handle the situation with Daphne 's food truck . Title reference : From the 1983 sculpture , Human / Need / Desire , by Bruce Nauman . 37 7 `` Drive in the Knife '' Steve Miner Chad Fiveash & James Stoteraux February 18 , 2013 ( 2013 - 02 - 18 ) 1.52 Daphne breaks up with Travis . Afterwards , the police find the man who robbed the food truck but Travis lies when he is asked to ID the man . Daphne finds out that Travis wants personal revenge against the guy . Meanwhile , the Kennish kids are roped into helping out with John 's campaign . Toby meets Elisa , a volunteer who turns out to be the daughter of the opposing candidate . Bay tells Emmett that she 's in a new relationship , but he kisses her anyway . Regina is fired from her new job after the first day and turns to alcohol after being sober for many years . Title reference : From the 1943 painting , Drive in the Knife , by Roberto Matta . 38 8 `` Tight Rope Walker '' Joanna Kerns Anne Kenney & Henry Robles February 25 , 2013 ( 2013 - 02 - 25 ) 1.69 While Toby bonds with Elisa , discord breaks out at Carlton when the deaf students oppose the pilot program for hearing students , leaving Daphne feeling caught in the middle . After she talks to the school board , she tells Kathryn that they have decided to close Carlton . Meanwhile , Bay tells Regina 's old boyfriend Zane about Regina 's alcohol abuse and Zane then tells Regina . Regina confronts Bay about telling Zane and angrily scolds her for it . Bay is severely hurt but forgives Regina for her outburst after she apologizes . The two then decide to keep it secret and Regina promises to go back to her classes and get help . However , she goes back on her word when she leaves a voicemail for her sponsor and then deletes the message instead of sending it . Title reference : From the 1885 painting , Tight - Rope Walker , by Jean - Louis Forain . 39 9 `` Uprising '' Steve Miner Lizzy Weiss March 4 , 2013 ( 2013 - 03 - 04 ) 1.63 Daphne leads her classmates in a protest against the closing of their school . Bay 's efforts to join them are met with resistance . The uprising horrifies the parents and puts relationships at risk including Daphne and Bay 's . Daphne finds out that Regina started drinking again . Melody is offered a position on the School Board . Note : `` Uprising '' was the first episode of a national mainstream scripted television series to be told almost entirely in American Sign Language ( ASL ) , with open captions for hearing viewers . Series creator Lizzy Weiss described the innovative concept , stating `` I 've been wanting to do an all - ASL episode since the series began , and the storyline we 've been focusing on this season gave us the perfect opportunity . It 's an exciting , visual , empowering story of kids who are different fighting back , and it allows our audience to experience the world as our deaf characters do . We 've been building to this for 39 episodes and we 're all thrilled to be the first to try this . '' Title reference : From the 1860 painting , The Uprising , by Honoré Daumier . 40 10 `` Introducing the Miracle '' Ron Lagomarsino Becky Hartman Edwards & Lizzy Weiss March 11 , 2013 ( 2013 - 03 - 11 ) 1.75 Daphne and the students of Carlton School for the Deaf find out if their protest will keep the school open and deaf . Lana goes into labor , Toby makes a surprise announcement , and John 's campaign for office ends unexpectedly . Meanwhile , an intoxicated Regina shows up at Angelo 's , and Emmett tells Bay about the kiss between Daphne and Noah . Title reference : From the 1916 painting , Introducing the Miracle , by Paul Klee 41 11 `` Mother and Child Divided '' Ron Lagomarsino Lizzy Weiss June 10 , 2013 ( 2013 - 06 - 10 ) 1.66 Regina returns early from rehab , only to find that Daphne has grown closer to the Kennish family . Bay runs into her ex-boyfriend Ty ; Travis and Emmett take advantage of Melody 's absence and Kathryn and Nikki do n't see eye to eye . Bay begins working at her dad 's office . Title reference : From the 1993 artwork , Mother and Child Divided , by Damien Hirst 42 12 `` Distorted House '' Fred Gerber Joy Gregory & Henry Robles June 17 , 2013 ( 2013 - 06 - 17 ) 1.62 Bay begins to reconnect with Ty but then learns shocking news about his experiences in Afghanistan . Toby and Travis both seek a managerial position at John 's car wash . Kathryn and Daphne have a hard time coming to terms with Bay 's desire to stay with Regina . Kathryn and Daphne become tennis partners in a tournament at the country club . Title reference : From the 2010 building , The Distort House , designed by TWS & Partners . 43 13 `` The Good Samaritan '' Zetna Fuentes Becky Hartman Edwards & Bekah Brunstetter June 24 , 2013 ( 2013 - 06 - 24 ) 1.76 Toby and Nikki 's relationship is strained by work and wedding planning so Bay tries to help Toby by booking a gig for Toby 's band for the carnival to give him a temporary reprieve from the demands of adult life . Regina and Bay 's messiness frustrates Angelo when he comes back from searching for his baby . Kathryn is unnerved by Adriana 's frequent visits , and Jace introduces Daphne to a new adventure . Title reference : From the 1890 painting , The Good Samaritan , by Vincent van Gogh . 44 14 `` He Did What He Wanted '' Steve Miner Lizzy Weiss & Michael Ross July 1 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 01 ) 1.61 Regina persuades the interior decorator who fired her to give her a second chance . Angelo joins the country club , and hires Regina to redecorate a restaurant he becomes a partner in . John 's senate boss Chip Coto makes a pass at Kathryn and she tells John . Daphne and Jace learn Coto has been having an affair with an intern , and Jace anonymously texts him that his secret is known . John angrily confronts Regina , and tells her he will never forgive her for keeping Daphne from him for 13 years , then has a heart attack in the kitchen . Regina finds him , calls 911 and administers CPR . Title reference : From the 1927 painting , He Did What He Wanted , by Yves Tanguy . 45 15 `` Ecce Mono '' David Paymer Chad Fiveash & James Stoteraux July 8 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 08 ) 2.02 In an alternative reality dreamt by John during his heart attack , Regina reveals the switch as soon as she learns of it . John sues her and wins exclusive custody of both three - year - old girls , obtaining a restraining order against her . Daphne Kennish is given a cochlear implant and 13 years later has turned into a typical `` Buckner brat '' with a C average who is best friends with Simone Sinclair , sleeps with college frat men , and steals her parents ' credit card ; while Bay has become an adopted , motivated , A-student wallflower . Toby retains his gambling problem . Kathryn has become a romance novelist and is sleeping with Chip Coto . Bay meets Emmett and with his help finds out about Regina . Daphne and Bay meet Adriana and find out that Regina has died on their birthday , then angrily confront John . The dream ends with John again collapsing in the kitchen with a heart attack ; he wakes up in the hospital , grateful to Regina for helping save his life . Title reference : From the restoration attempt , Ecce Mono , by Cecilia Giménez of the original c. 1930 fresco ( mural painting ) , Ecce Homo , by Elías García Martinez . 46 16 `` The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living '' Melanie Mayron Darla Lansu July 15 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 15 ) 1.75 Bay meets some of Ty 's soldier friends , including an army medic named Aida whom Ty has slept with . Angelo offers Regina help in bringing in some business . After a family emergency , the Kennish family is going through some changes . John must face the reality of his situation . Daphne is torn between her family and her interest in being with Jace. The episode ending with Bay and Ty in Ty 's room and Ty blows out the last candle and they sleep together . Title reference : From the 1991 art piece , The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living , by Damien Hirst . 47 17 `` Prudence , Avarice , Lust , Justice , Anger '' Lea Thompson Terrence Coli & Becky Hartman Edwards July 22 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 22 ) 1.76 A gay couple is introduced . Angelo invites Bay to join him at a pivotal meeting concerning the custody of his new baby . This tests their relationship when she originally declines to go , but Ty convinces her to go . When Daphne and Jace uncover Senator Coto 's corruption and shameless womanizing , they must decide what to do with the confidential information . Meanwhile , Nikki discovers that Toby and Simone have been in touch , and Emmett and Travis try to set Melody up on a blind date . Title reference : From the c. 1978 painting , Prudence , Avarice , Lust , Justice , Anger , by Jack Beal . 48 18 `` As The Shadows Deepen '' Wendey Stanzler Joy Gregory & Henry Robles July 29 , 2013 ( 2013 - 07 - 29 ) 1.76 Bay decides to put on Deaf Day at Maui to bring in more customers , since the park has been losing business . She gets help from Emmett , which causes problems when Ty sees the two of them together . Daphne finds out that Jeff is now Jace 's friend 's fiancé and that the two were in a long - term relationship , despite Jeff 's affair with Daphne . Red flags are raised about Jace after he tries to steal a credit card and tells Jeff 's fiancé the truth . Toby suggests that Nikki visit the man who killed her father in prison to get closure . John starts to mend his relationship with his father . Bay learns that Ty is about to be deployed back to Afghanistan . Title reference : From the 2000 painting , As the Shadows Deepened , by Eyvind Earle . 49 19 `` What Goes Up Must Come Down '' Joanna Kerns Bekah Brunstetter & Lizzy Weiss August 5 , 2013 ( 2013 - 08 - 05 ) 1.68 Daphne worries that Senator Coto is on to her and her frustration with Jace comes to a head when Parker shares some upsetting news . Nikki confronts her mom about her dad 's history . Meanwhile , John continues to find ways to pay back Regina for saving his life , and Ty and Bay go camping as Emmett 's father gets a cochlear implant . Title reference : From the 1994 art piece What goes up must come down by Damien Hirst . 50 20 `` The Merrymakers '' Zetna Fuentes James Stoteraux & Chad Fiveash August 12 , 2013 ( 2013 - 08 - 12 ) 1.60 Bay and Daphne throw Nikki an impromptu bachelorette party , while a call from Simone alters the course of Toby 's bachelor party . Meanwhile , Kathryn is surprised at Jennice 's extravagant wedding requests , and a change in living situation leads Angelo and Regina to reevaluate their relationship . Title reference : From the 1616 - 17 painting , Merrymakers at Shrovetide , by Frans Hals . 51 21 `` Departure of Summer '' Steve Miner Becky Hartman Edwards & Lizzy Weiss August 19 , 2013 ( 2013 - 08 - 19 ) 1.96 Toby prepares for his wedding and both his parents and Nikki 's mom contemplate being truthful with him . Meanwhile , Daphne is forced to own up to her mistakes regarding her blackmail of Senator Coto . Angelo realizes that his baby belongs with Victor and Leo and makes a deal to still be part of her life . Bay seeks a long - distance romance with Ty in the face of his redeployment , however Ty learns that he 'll be in even more dangerous territory this time around . To protect Bay from the truth , he breaks up with her using a terrible lie -- one that leads Bay straight back into the arms of Emmett . Title reference : From the 1914 art piece Departure of Summer by Man Ray .