No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) 79 `` Raven , Sydney and the Man '' Rich Correll Marc Warren February 20 , 2006 ( 2006 - 02 - 20 ) 403 4.5 Raven , Chelsea , and Eddie volunteer to run clubs for Mrs. Valentine 's class at the Community Center . While there , Raven must deal with mentoring an obnoxious little girl named Sydney . Raven finds out that Sydney never knew her real parents , and eventually they grow a sisterly bond . 80 `` Pin Pals '' Rich Correll Dennis Rinsler February 24 , 2006 ( 2006 - 02 - 24 ) 401 TBA The episode begins with Victor talking to Raven and Cory about taking responsibility in the Baxter house since Tanya is in England . Raven must choose between going with Chelsea and Eddie for a bowling tournament , or sneaking into world - famous fashion designer Donna Cabonna 's ( Anne - Marie Johnson ) fashion show to show off her designs . She chooses to go to the fashion show , and ends up `` saving the night '' ... before she destroys it . She then becomes an intern for Donna Cabonna . In this episode , it is revealed that Raven 's mother , Tanya Baxter , left to study law in England . 81 `` Dues and Don'ts '' Rich Correll Theresa Akana & Stacee Comage March 3 , 2006 ( 2006 - 03 - 03 ) 404 TBA Raven has a vision that she will get an awesome office on her first day at work as an intern for Donna Cabonna ( Anne - Marie Johnson ) , and she decides to brag about it . Muffy doubts Raven 's words and Chelsea later invites Muffy , Señorita Rodriguez , and the entire Spanish class , much to Raven 's dismay . Raven arrives at her first day of work and finds out her `` private office '' is actually Donna 's office room , Chelsea accidentally locks Raven out of Donna 's office room that they have a party . Cory and Eddie accidentally destroyed the kitchen after they was fight having a ticket . When Raven 's unexpected visitors threaten to ruin Donna 's office room and Raven kicks them out , but not before knocking Donna 's prized sculpture off the center . Donna returns and Raven tries to hide the tilted art from her . Tiffany unexpectedly `` saves the day '' by accidentally breaking the sculpture and therefore taking the heat from Donna . Absent : Rondell Sheridan as Victor Baxter 82 `` Unhappy Medium '' Rich Correll Josh Lynn & Danny Warren March 17 , 2006 ( 2006 - 03 - 17 ) 407 TBA Teen actress Nicky Logan ( Brooke Lyons ) arrives at Bayside High School to shoot a new movie . But when Raven had a vision that Nicky gon na get choked by eating taffy , she saves her from it . She asks Raven how does she know this will occurs , but when she said she is a psychic , Nicky had confessed that she 's playing the psychic character in a new movie and asks that if Raven would mind to be one of Nicky 's pointers . Raven would be happy to help , if means joining Nicky 's circle . She acts like a psychic that talks to the dead . Then Raven brainwashes Nicky . But then she had a vision that this will cause Nicky to be fired on the set . Nicky said that if her performance had met with positive reviews , she 'll allows Raven to come along to Malibu , but Raven was worried about her vision and she started planning how to save Nicky from be fired . She tells her on the set but it turns out that Raven is gon na get fired . She tries to explain to Nicky but she does n't care and she said that Raven ca n't come along to Malibu , leaving Raven heartbroken . Then Raven had the third vision that Nicky 's performance will be meeting negative reviews and the news anchor announces that her beach house in Malibu will be taken away . Since Raven thinks Nicky deserves it , she did n't tell her . 83 5 `` Adventures in Boss - Sitting '' Eric Dean Seaton Jessica Lopez March 24 , 2006 ( 2006 - 03 - 24 ) 406 TBA Donna Cabonna makes Raven her temporary assistant while Tiffany is out of town . Devon returns to San Francisco for one night and Raven is planning on a romantic date , but Donna Cabonna shows up at Raven 's doorstep in tears because her boyfriend broke up with her . Raven must juggle both Devon and Donna , running up and down the stairs , catering to Donna 's every whim while trying to have a nice night with Devon . Donna breaks down again , and Cocoa runs down the stairs with the head of a bear that Devon got Raven . Devon finds out that Raven has been hiding Donna upstairs , and gets angry and breaks up with Raven . Meanwhile , Cory goes on a date with a girl named Brittany . At the movie he sees Cindy , his ex-girlfriend , who is also on a date with a boy . The date does n't turn out all that well , and Cory finds himself wanting to get back together with Cindy . Cindy , Devon , and Teddy , all come to the door and each relationship is rekindled . Absent : Rondell Sheridan as Victor Baxter 84 6 `` Hook Up My Space '' Rich Correll Michael Feldman March 31 , 2006 ( 2006 - 03 - 31 ) 408 TBA Raven feels that her room is not big enough . When she gets a vision of Cory asking Victor if he can move his band to the basement , Raven interrupts her brother . She gets to Victor first . This makes Cory furious , and he uses the television makeover show Hook Up My Space to make Raven 's room just how she hates it , instead of the way she wants it . Even though Raven gets embarrassed on national television , Cory later makes over her new room exactly how she wants it , Chelsea accidentally puts the big paper at Raven on the wall . Meanwhile , Victor and Eddie decide they need to work out after finding it too hard to lift a box of Raven 's stuffed animals and pillows . This leads them to move Victor 's old weights up to Raven 's old room to exercise . 85 7 `` Driving Miss Lazy '' Eric Dean Seaton Michael Carrington April 21 , 2006 ( 2006 - 04 - 21 ) 405 TBA Eddie , gets his driver 's license , and he decides to buy a car with Raven and Chelsea . Raven and Chelsea boss Eddie around by creating a `` voting '' system -- tilted in their favor -- and even painting their beloved car pink . After being their valet for too long , Eddie takes a drive to the countryside by himself . Sheriff Jefferson ( Tim Reid ) arrests Eddie on suspicion of being `` The Pink Bandit '' , who is responsible for a string of recent burglaries in the area . Eddie enlists Raven 's help , and she uses a disguise to assist her friend . Back at home , Stanley sells Cory cologne that he says will attract girls , but it turns out to attract dogs . Absent : Rondell Sheridan as Victor Baxter 86 8 `` Be Prepared '' Debbie Allen Marc Warren May 12 , 2006 ( 2006 - 05 - 12 ) 413 TBA Raven agrees to help her boss , Donna Cabonna , shoot a public service announcement commercial / music video about emergency preparedness . Raven gets boy band Boyz ' N Motion to shoot the video , but the trio begin to turn against each other , and then break up . Raven and the others start to panic when the alarm in the office goes off , and they do not know how to exit the building safely . California 's Former First Lady , Maria Shriver , guest stars . 87 9 `` Juicer Consequences '' Rich Correll Michael Feldman June 24 , 2006 ( 2006 - 06 - 24 ) 402 TBA Raven and Chelsea get into a huge fight because Raven only thinks about herself , and never listens to others . Meanwhile , Cory starts junior high school , and becomes a business partner with a bully named `` The Juicer '' . Then at school , Raven has a vision where Cory gets juiced . So she must tell Cory at his junior high school . Absent : Orlando Brown as Eddie Thomas 88 10 `` Sister Act '' Marc Warren Michael Feldman July 8 , 2006 ( 2006 - 07 - 08 ) 412 TBA Raven and Sydney enter a beauty pageant to raise money for the Community Center . Things get personal when Muffy and her younger sister , Buffy , also enter the pageant . This causes Raven and Muffy to become too competitive , leading to everyone in the room quarreling -- even Chelsea , Eddie , Stanley , Cory , Victor , and the audience . When Raven has a vision of Sydney releasing the rope that holds a giant globe that will fall on Buffy during the fight , she stops everyone from fighting . However , all 4 of the girls are immediately `` disqualified for starting a fight '' . 89 11 `` Checkin ' Out '' ( Part one of `` That 's So Suite Life of Hannah Montana '' ) Rich Correll Story by : Michael Carrington Teleplay by : Edward C. Evans & Al Sonja L. Rice July 28 , 2006 ( 2006 - 07 - 28 ) 422 7.1 Raven must organize an important photo - shoot for Donna Cabonna at the Tipton Hotel in Boston , however she messes up when she lands Pistache in Italy and the models still stuck halfway around the world in Budaprogoslovakia . However things turn to worst when Raven 's Secretec 's alarm has the wrong time so she misses her flight back to San Francisco . Meanwhile , Eddie and Cory use Chelsea 's paddleballs to get money by having her break records . They think that it will be easy , until the defending paddleball champion -- Stanley -- shows up . Note : This was a crossover with The Suite Life of Zack & Cody and Hannah Montana . 90 12 `` Fur Better or Worse '' Eric Dean Seaton Deborah Swisher August 5 , 2006 ( 2006 - 08 - 05 ) 410 TBA Raven shows Donna Cabonna her sketches for their new fall clothing line . Donna likes her designs , but thinks that they would be better with a fur collar on them . Raven quickly tells her best friend , Chelsea , about her `` good news '' . Chelsea , along with her Friendly Earth Society Club members , protest the use of real animal fur in clothing , resulting Raven and Chelsea 's friendship turning sour . Meanwhile , Stanley creates -- and sells -- a gadget to Eddie and Cory that uses pick - up lines to attract women . What Stanley did n't tell them that it DID NOT attract women , but it hit on them , thus resulting in Eddie being whacked by women with purses . 91 13 `` Mad Hot Cotillion '' Rich Correll Michael Carrington August 12 , 2006 ( 2006 - 08 - 12 ) 415 TBA Cory gives advice about getting girls to `` The Juicer '' , who has his eyes on a beautiful new transfer student , Kayla . `` The Juicer '' gets angry when he finds out she really likes Cory . Meanwhile , Raven is grounded for a week for being late for her great aunt 's 80th birthday celebration ( following a vision of Chelsea and Eddie needing help in a Mexican restaurant ) , and she quickly goes mad from loneliness . 92 14 `` When 6021 Met 4267 '' Eric Dean Seaton Dennis Rinsler August 18 , 2006 ( 2006 - 08 - 18 ) 411 TBA When Raven is having a party , she ca n't find a date to go with , so she uses the school 's internet dating service to find out a compatible match . Raven finds out her true soul mate is Eddie , and then has a vision that their lives will be horrible when they grow up if they stay together . Because of this , she breaks up with Eddie . During the party they share a kiss , in which they seem to feel no spark from . In the last scene they share one more kiss , and there they both deny any feeling of a spark , but both of them end up showing that they liked the kiss and may have feelings for each other even though they decided to just be friends . 93 15 `` Soup to Nuts '' Rich Correll Story by : Michael Feldman Teleplay by : Dennis Rinsler & Marc Warren August 25 , 2006 ( 2006 - 08 - 25 ) 421 TBA Raven hurts Principal Stuckerman , sending him to the hospital . She has a vision that Stuckerman is going to retire the next day , so she tries to avoid him the whole day by playing sick . Her grandma 's soup causes her to have strange dreams , placing her in strange situations ... 94 16 `` Members Only '' Rich Correll Theresa Akana & Stacee Comage September 15 , 2006 ( 2006 - 09 - 15 ) 414 TBA Raven and Chelsea pretend to be Eddie 's girlfriends , so he can get into a hot new club called `` The Sigmas '' . Things get ugly when the club 's leaders , Dylan and Jordan , find out that Eddie is scamming them . Meanwhile , Cory and Victor try to find a cricket that Cory accidentally lets loose in the house . 95 17 `` The Ice Girl Cometh '' Rich Correll Al Sonja L. Rice September 22 , 2006 ( 2006 - 09 - 22 ) 409 TBA Chelsea and her mother ( Amy Yasbeck ) invite Raven to join them on a mother / daughter retreat that they have every year since Tanya is in England . Raven initially cringes at that idea , but when she has a vision of meeting a cute guy named Brent , she quickly changes her mind . Meanwhile , Cory 's band , `` Cory and the Boys '' , takes drastic action to get radio DJ Mitch ( Dorien Wilson ) , Victor 's old friend , to get their music played on the radio . 96 18 `` Rae of Sunshine '' Eric Dean Seaton Lanny Horn October 6 , 2006 ( 2006 - 10 - 06 ) 418 TBA Raven unwittingly hosts a slumber party at her house for Sydney 's new club , the local Bayside Sunshine Girls , and everything turns into a complete disaster . Meanwhile , Cory takes Eddie and Chelsea to the movies , and has to deal with their loudness . Despite Eddie and Chelsea making all the noise , it is Cory who gets kicked out of the theater for being too loud . Absent : Rondell Sheridan as Victor Baxter 97 19 `` The Dress is Always Greener '' Eric Dean Seaton Deborah Swisher November 25 , 2006 ( 2006 - 11 - 25 ) 416 TBA Raven is getting very annoyed with Donna Cabonna because she wants to be a fashion designer , not a maid . Then , Donna 's ex-best friend ( but now arch - enemy ) , Lora Stelladora ( Kathy Najimy ) , moves into the office upstairs , and offers Raven a job as a fashion designer . Raven quickly finds that she has to deal with two bosses . Meanwhile , Cory and Eddie try to profit on Chelsea 's potato that resembles Abraham Lincoln . Note : This is Rondell Sheridan 's last appearance as Victor Baxter in That 's So Raven . Sheridan will reprise his role as Victor Baxter in Cory in the House . 98 20 `` Teacher 's Pet '' Rondell Sheridan Al Sonja L. Rice January 15 , 2007 ( 2007 - 01 - 15 ) 417 TBA Raven 's scheme to get an exam postponed gets the new , hip young history teacher fired . Meanwhile , Cory auditions girls to find a new lead singer for his band , but `` The Juicer '' insists that he will be the new singer because he `` sings like an angel '' . Note : This episode -- and the two episodes that follow -- aired after Cory in the House had already premiered . Absent : Rondell Sheridan as Victor Baxter 99 21 `` The Way We Were '' Eric Dean Seaton Story by : Deborah Swisher Teleplay by : Theresa Akana & Stacee Comage March 2 , 2007 ( 2007 - 03 - 02 ) 420 TBA Raven and Chelsea throw Eddie a surprise birthday party , and invite both of his divorced parents ( Geoffrey Owens and Rae Dawn Chong ) , who -- Eddie suspects -- will get back together . However , Eddie quickly finds out about the party from Chelsea , of course . Notes : Although this episode is the series finale , it did not air as the last . It was aired eight months before `` Where There 's Smoke '' and over a year after it was shot ( January 2006 ) . When Raven explains her vision about Eddie 's parents to him , he asks `` You sure you were n't just watching The Cosby Show ? '' , on which Raven - Symone and guest - star Geoffrey Owens were cast members . Absent : Rondell Sheridan as Victor Baxter 100 22 `` Where There 's Smoke '' Eric Dean Seaton Edward C. Evans November 10 , 2007 ( 2007 - 11 - 10 ) 419 5.5 Raven suspects that Cory has started smoking when she finds a pack of cigarettes in Cory 's shirt pocket which gets him in trouble , but he is really hiding them from his girlfriend , Cindy , so she does not smoke them . Absent : Rondell Sheridan as Victor Baxter