Air quotes are made by raising both hands to eye level and flexing the index and middle fingers of both hands while speaking . Their meaning is similar to that of scare quotes in writing . Añjali Mudrā ( namaste ) is a sign of respect in India and among yoga practitioners . It is made by pressing the palms together. This is of Indian origin . Applause is an expression of approval made by clapping the hands together to create repetitive staccato noise . Applause is most appropriate within a group setting , to collectively show approval by the volume , duration , and clamor of the noise . Awkward turtle is a two handed gesture used to mark a moment as awkward . One hand is placed flat atop the other with both palms facing down , fingers extended outward from the hand and thumbs stuck out to the sides . The thumbs are rotated to symbolize flippers . Batsu . In Japanese culture , the batsu ( literally : × - mark ) is a gesture made by crossing one 's arms in the shape of an `` X '' in front of them in order to indicate that something is `` wrong '' or `` no good '' . Bras d'honneur is an obscene gesture made by flexing one elbow while gripping the inside of the bent arm with the opposite hand Chironomia refers to the use of gestures to support oratory . The Kohanic or Priestly Blessing - a gesture of benediction in Judaism , used ( especially by those of Kohanic or priestly descent ) when reciting the Priestly Blessing ( Numbers 6 : 22 - 26 ) . Both hands are held up , palms toward the congregation , with the fingers grouped in twos - the little and ring fingers together , the index and second fingers together , and the tips of the two thumbs touching . The golf clap , unlike applause , is a timid and practically silent clapping of the palms together , to silently approve of something . It may be performed when loud applause is inappropriate ; however , it may instead be done in mockery or to display faux approval . Hand - rubbing , rubbing both hands palms together along the fingers ' direction may mean that one is expecting or anticipating something or that one feels cold .