The most successful of the attempts took place in 1969 , when 56 separate obsolete provisions ( including the entirety of Article 13 , and 22 entire sections from Articles 10 , 12 , and 14 ) were successfully repealed . In 1971 the Texas Legislature placed on the November 1972 ballot an Amendment which called for the Legislature to meet in January 1974 for 90 days as a constitutional convention , for purposes of drafting a new state Constitution . The measure passed ( thus adding Section 2 to Article 17 ; the section was later repealed in November 1999 ) and the Legislature met . However , even with an additional 60 days added to the session , the convention failed by a mere three votes to propose a new constitution . In 1975 , the Legislature , meeting in regular session , revived much of the work of the 1974 convention and proposed it as a set of eight amendments to the existing constitution . All eight of the amendments were overwhelmingly rejected by the voters ( in 250 the state 's 254 counties , all eight amendments were defeated ; only in Duval and Webb counties did all eight amendments pass ) . In 1979 the Legislature placed on the ballot four amendments which had their origins in the 1974 convention ; of which three were approved by the voters : One amendment created a single property tax `` appraisal district '' in each county for purposes of providing a uniform appraised value for all property in a county applicable to all taxing authorities ( previously , each taxing authority assessed property individually and frequently did so at dissimilar values between the authorities ) Another amendment gave to the Texas Court of Appeals criminal appellate jurisdiction ( previously , the Courts had jurisdiction over civil matters only ; though death penalty cases still bypass this level ) The last amendment gave the Governor of Texas limited authority to remove appointed statewide officials In 1995 , Senator John Montford drafted a streamlined constitution similar to the 1974 version . However , Montford resigned his seat to become chancellor of the Texas Tech University System , and his initiative subsequently died . Later that year , though , voters approved an amendment abolishing the office of State Treasurer and moving its duties to the Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts office . In 1998 , a bipartisan effort ( led by Republican Senator Bill Ratliff and Democratic Representative Rob Junell ) produced a rewritten constitution , with the help of students from Angelo State University ( Junell 's district included the San Angelo area ) . The second draft was submitted to the 76th Legislature , but failed to gain support in committee .