Marinette Dupain - Cheng a.k.a. Ladybug ( voiced by Cristina Vee in the English version and Anouck Hautbois in the French version ) is a budding fashion designer at Collège Françoise - Dupont and her family operates a renowned bakery . Marinette is sweet , joyful and a bit awkward , but respected by her peers . She has a huge crush on Adrien , whom she can barely speak to out of nervousness ; her best friend Alya often tries to help Marinette declare her love to him , although it ends in failure . Chosen by Fu as the keeper of the Ladybug Miraculous , she can transform into the superheroine `` Ladybug '' with the help of her kwami Tikki , to defend Paris with her crime - fighting partner Cat Noir . As Ladybug , aware of the nature of the situations she faces , she 's more serious and she brushes off Cat Noir 's advances on her , unaware that Cat Noir 's alter - ego is the object of her own affections . Her crime - fighting tool is a yo - yo . With it , she can use her special power Lucky Charm , that can create an object , most of the time to be used with other key objects , to defeat the villains , and capture and purify the akuma butterflies , after which she has the created object turn into energy that removes the harm the villains caused . Her transformation call is `` Tikki , Spots On ! '' ( French : Tikki , transforme - moi ! , `` Tikki , transform me ! '' ) . After she and Cat Noir defeat a villain , they give each other a fist - bump and say `` Pound it '' ( French : Bien joué ! , `` Good Game '' ) Adrien Agreste a.k.a. Cat Noir ( voiced by Bryce Papenbrook in the English version and Benjamin Bollen in the French version ) is Marinette 's classmate who she has a crush on . Adrien has a wealthy family , and he is a popular fashion model for the clothing company of his father , Gabriel , through he laments his poor relationship with him ; his mother , meanwhile , has disappeared . Adrien is kind , loyal , sensitive , well - liked and smart . He hangs out often with his best friend Nino . Chosen by Fu as the keeper of the Black Cat Miraculous , he can transform into the superhero `` Cat Noir '' ( French : Chat Noir , `` black cat '' ) with the help of his kwami Plagg to assist Ladybug in saving Paris . He is in love with Ladybug , despite not knowing her true identity and , while at the same time using the opportunity to be more rebellious , unsuccessfully tries to impress her as Cat Noir , being flirtatious and making bad , mostly cat - themed puns . His weapon he uses to fight the villains is a multi-functional staff and his special power , Cataclysm , allows him to destroy an object that he touches with a swipe of his paw . His transformation call is `` Plagg , Claws Out ! '' ( French : Plagg , transforme - moi ! , `` Plagg , transform me ! '' ) Hawk Moth ( French : le Papillon , lit . `` the butterfly '' ; voiced by Keith Silverstein in the English version and Antoine Tomé in the French version ) is a mysterious villain who uses the Butterfly Miraculous , that with its kwami Nooroo was originally purposed to create superheroes , to create supervillains with his akuma , which are butterflies he corrupts with his dark power . He preys on people who are at a point of weakness as a result of being wronged , appealing to their negative emotions of fear , sadness , anger , jealousy and / or despair , and granting them powers to exact revenge on those who have wronged them , in exchange for his pawns to steal Ladybug and Cat Noir 's Miraculouses for him so he can use both to gain immense power . The season 2 premiere episode `` The Collector '' reveals Hawk Moth 's identity to be Gabriel Agreste , Adrien 's father . Tikki ( voiced by Mela Lee in the English version and Marie Nonnenmacher in the French version ) is Marinette 's Kwami who allows her to transform into Ladybug . Tikki is a small floating magical humanoid with a large head , big eyes , and a red body with large black spots on her head , resembling a ladybug . She believes strongly in Marinette and gives her advice to be the best she can be , regardless of transformation . She eventually reveals to Marinette that she is more then 5000 years old , and had watched over every Ladybug since the beginning . During her charge 's transformation as Ladybug , she inhabits the Ladybug Miraculous , a pair of shiny black earrings that Marinette wears . One of the two strongest of the Miraculouses , it has the power of creation . She symbolizes the Yin . Astruc has written on Twitter that Tikki means `` happiness '' . Plagg ( voiced by Max Mittelman in the English version and Thierry Kazazian in the French version ) is Adrien 's Kwami who enables him to transform into Cat Noir . Plagg looks much like Tikki , but with a black body , green eyes and pointed ears , resembling a black cat . Unlike Tikki , however , Plagg is sarcastic and lazy . His favorite food is camembert , a stinky cheese . During his charge 's transformation as Cat Noir , he inhabits the Black Cat Miraculous , a large silver ring that Adrien wears on his right hand . One of the two strongest of the Miraculouses , it has the power of destruction . He symbolizes the Yang . Astruc has written on Twitter that Plagg means `` plague '' . Alya Césaire ( voiced by Carrie Keranen in the English version and Fanny Bloc in the French version ) is Marinette 's best friend who typically wears a plaid shirt and black glasses . She constantly helps Marinette with her problems , most of which pertain to Marinette attempting , and failing , to speak to Adrien ; she is often seen encouraging and helping her to talk to him . She aspires to be a journalist and is in charge of the school blog . She is a big fan of superheroes and like her peers , is a massive fan of Ladybug ; she even operates a fansite known as the Ladyblog , but like everyone else , is unaware of Marinette 's superhero identity . In the episode `` Lady Wifi '' , she is influenced by Hawk Moth and becomes the supervillain Lady Wifi . In the season 2 episode `` Sapotis '' , she temporarily receives the Fox Miraculous from Ladybug and meets its kwami Trixx , and transforms into a fox - themed superhero Rena Rouge ; she returns as Rena in the episode `` Syren '' . Alya 's family is originally from Martinique , a French overseas territory in the Caribbean . Chloé Bourgeois ( voiced by Selah Victor in the English version and Marie Chevalot in the French version ) is the mayor 's daughter . Chloé is extremely spoiled , snobby , and thinks the world revolves around her . She often bullies people , especially her classmates , primarily resulting in their sadness and despair becoming a target for Hawk Moth 's transforming them into akumatized villains . She has an unrequited crush on Adrien since childhood , and often tries to charm him , much to his discomfort , and resulting in a constant rivalry with Marinette for his affections . Like the other students , she has no knowledge of Ladybug 's identity , and is a big fan of Ladybug , often trying to take pictures with her ; she even has a Ladybug costume that she uses in private to imitate her . In the episode `` Antibug '' , she herself is influenced by Hawk Moth and becomes the supervillain Antibug , who wants revenge on Ladybug for pushing her aside . In the episode `` Ladybug & Cat Noir -- Origins , Part 1 '' , it is revealed that she has been classmates with Marinette for 4 consecutive years .