Class switching occurs by a mechanism called class switch recombination ( CSR ) binding . Class switch recombination is a biological mechanism that allows the class of antibody produced by an activated B cell to change during a process known as isotype or class switching . During CSR , portions of the antibody heavy chain locus are removed from the chromosome , and the gene segments surrounding the deleted portion are rejoined to retain a functional antibody gene that produces antibody of a different isotype . Double - stranded breaks are generated in DNA at conserved nucleotide motifs , called switch ( S ) regions , which are upstream from gene segments that encode the constant regions of antibody heavy chains ; these occur adjacent to all heavy chain constant region genes with the exception of the δ - chain . DNA is nicked and broken at two selected S - regions by the activity of a series of enzymes , including Activation - Induced ( Cytidine ) Deaminase ( AID ) , uracil DNA glycosylase and apyrimidic / apurinic ( AP ) - endonucleases . The intervening DNA between the S - regions is subsequently deleted from the chromosome , removing unwanted μ or δ heavy chain constant region exons and allowing substitution of a γ , α or ε constant region gene segment . The free ends of the DNA are rejoined by a process called non-homologous end joining ( NHEJ ) to link the variable domain exon to the desired downstream constant domain exon of the antibody heavy chain . In the absence of non-homologous end joining , free ends of DNA may be rejoined by an alternative pathway biased toward microhomology joins . With the exception of the μ and δ genes , only one antibody class is expressed by a B cell at any point in time . While class switch recombination is mostly a deletional process , rearranging a chromosome in `` cis '' , it can also occur ( in 10 to 20 % of cases , depending upon the Ig class ) as an inter-chromosomal translocation mixing immunoglobulin heavy chain genes from both alleles .