Establishes the name of the confederation with these words : `` The stile of this confederacy shall be ' The United States of America . ' '' Asserts the sovereignty of each state , except for the specific powers delegated to the confederation government : `` Each state retains its sovereignty , freedom , and independence , and every power , jurisdiction , and right , which is not by this Confederation expressly delegated . '' Declares the purpose of the confederation : `` The said States hereby severally enter into a firm league of friendship with each other , for their common defense , the security of their liberties , and their mutual and general welfare , binding themselves to assist each other , against all force offered to , or attacks made upon them , or any of them , on account of religion , sovereignty , trade , or any other pretense whatever . '' Elaborates upon the intent `` to secure and perpetuate mutual friendship and intercourse among the people of the different States in this union , '' and to establish equal treatment and freedom of movement for the free inhabitants of each state to pass unhindered between the states , excluding `` paupers , vagabonds , and fugitives from justice . '' All these people are entitled to equal rights established by the state into which they travel . If a crime is committed in one state and the perpetrator flees to another state , he will be extradited to and tried in the state in which the crime was committed . Allocates one vote in the Congress of the Confederation ( the `` United States in Congress Assembled '' ) to each state , which is entitled to a delegation of between two and seven members . Members of Congress are to be appointed by state legislatures . No congressman may serve more than three out of any six years . Only the central government may declare war , or conduct foreign political or commercial relations . No state or official may accept foreign gifts or titles , and granting any title of nobility is forbidden to all . No states may form any sub-national groups . No state may tax or interfere with treaty stipulations already proposed . No state may wage war without permission of Congress , unless invaded or under imminent attack on the frontier ; no state may maintain a peacetime standing army or navy , unless infested by pirates , but every State is required to keep ready , a well - trained , disciplined , and equipped militia . Whenever an army is raised for common defense , the state legislatures shall assign military ranks of colonel and below . Expenditures by the United States of America will be paid with funds raised by state legislatures , and apportioned to the states in proportion to the real property values of each . Powers and functions of the United States in Congress Assembled . Grants to the United States in Congress assembled the sole and exclusive right and power to determine peace and war ; to exchange ambassadors ; to enter into treaties and alliances , with some provisos ; to establish rules for deciding all cases of captures or prizes on land or water ; to grant letters of marque and reprisal ( documents authorizing privateers ) in times of peace ; to appoint courts for the trial of pirates and crimes committed on the high seas ; to establish courts for appeals in all cases of captures , but no member of Congress may be appointed a judge ; to set weights and measures ( including coins ) , and for Congress to serve as a final court for disputes between states . The court will be composed of jointly appointed commissioners or Congress shall appoint them . Each commissioner is bound by oath to be impartial . The court 's decision is final . Congress shall regulate the post offices ; appoint officers in the military ; and regulate the armed forces . The United States in Congress assembled may appoint a president who shall not serve longer than one year per three - year term of the Congress . Congress may request requisitions from the states in proportion with their population , or take credit . Congress may not declare war , enter into treaties and alliances , appropriate money , or appoint a commander in chief without nine states assented . Congress shall keep a journal of proceedings and adjourn for periods not to exceed six months . When Congress is in recess , any of the powers of Congress may be executed by `` The committee of the states , or any nine of them '' , except for those powers of Congress which require nine states in Congress to execute . If `` Canada '' ( as the British - held Province of Quebec was also known ) accedes to this confederation , it will be admitted . No other colony could be admitted without the consent of nine states . Reaffirms that the Confederation accepts war debt incurred by Congress before the existence of the Articles . Declares that the Articles shall be perpetual , and may be altered only with the approval of Congress and the ratification of all the state legislatures .