Country Visa requirement Allowed stay Notes Afghanistan Visa required Visitors born in Afghanistan do not require a visa . Visitors arriving via military air need to legalize their stay if they wish to leave via commercial airline . All visitors are fingerprinted . Albania Visa not required 1 year Algeria Visa required Visas must be issued at the Embassy of Algeria in Washington , D.C. Persons may be denied entry if entering with a passport containing visas or stamps issued by Israel . Andorra Visa not required 3 months Angola Visa required Diplomatic , official and courtesy visas may be obtained online International Certificate of Vaccination required Antigua and Barbuda Visa not required 1 month Stringent application of rules regarding proof of sufficient funds , return ticket and accommodation . Departure tax ( ~ $27 ) applies . Argentina Visa not required 90 days , extendable up to 180 days Visitors are fingerprinted and photographed upon entry . Armenia Visa not required 180 days Australia Electronic Travel Authority 90 days on each visit in 12 - month period if granted May enter using SmartGate . Austria Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Azerbaijan eVisa / Visa on arrival 30 days If intending to stay in the Republic of Azerbaijan for more than ten days , the visitor must register at the State Migration Service of the Republic of Azerbaijan within three days upon arrival in Azerbaijan . Applicants of Armenian ancestry or with Armenian visas in their passport may not obtain a visa . Can obtain a 30 days visa on arrival only if arriving on a direct flight of Azerbaijan Airlines from New York City . Bahamas Visa not required 8 months Passport Card or Enhanced Drivers License valid for Sea Travel Bahrain eVisa / Visa on arrival 14 days Visa also obtainable online Bangladesh Visa on arrival 30 days Available at Shahjalal International Airport , Shah Amanat International Airport and Osmani International Airport . Visa is not required by Bangladeshi Americans . Departure tax applies . Barbados Visa not required 28 days , extendable up to 6 months Belarus Visa not required 5 days Must arrive via Minsk International Airport . Visas are issued on arrival at the Minsk International Airport if the support documents were submitted not later than 3 business days before expected date of arrival . Registration upon arrival for stays longer than 7 days is mandatory . Visa - free visits to Belovezhskaya Pushcha National Park for up to 3 days . Visa - free visits to the Grodno and Augustow Canal visa - free zone for up to 5 days . No transit without a visa under any circumstance . Belgium Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Belize Visa not required 1 month , extendable up to 6 months Departure tax ( ~ $40 ) applies . Benin eVisa Single or multiple entry ( ~ $40 ) can be applied International Certificate of Vaccination recommended Bhutan Visa required $250 per day is a non-negotiable minimum daily tariff paid by all visitors to Bhutan . Visas are issued only to tourists booked with a local licensed tour operator . Bolivia Visa on arrival 90 days $160 reciprocal fee must be paid in cash if applying for either a pre-approved visa or a visa on arrival . Visas are issued with 10 year validity . Bosnia and Herzegovina Visa not required 90 days within any 6 - month period Registration with the local police within 24 hours of arrival is mandatory . Botswana Visa not required 90 days within any year period Brazil eVisa 90 days per year ; valid for 2 years . Brunei Visa not required 90 days Immigration offenses , such as visa overstaying , are punishable by caning . Bulgaria Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period Burkina Faso Visa on arrival 1 month International Certificate of Vaccination required . Burundi Visa required Visitors are fingerprinted Cambodia eVisa / Visa on arrival 30 days Visa is also obtainable online . All visitors are fingerprinted on arrival and departure . Cameroon Visa required International Certificate of Vaccination and current immunization records required . Canada Visa not required 180 days Anyone with a criminal record ( including misdemeanors or alcohol - related driving offenses in the US ) may not be able to enter Canada without first obtaining an approval for rehabilitation or a Temporary Resident Permit ( TRP ) . Passport Card , NEXUS card , or Enhanced Drivers License valid for Land and Sea Travel Cape Verde Visa on arrival Obtainable at Nelson Mandela International Airport , Cesária Évora Airport , Amílcar Cabral International Airport and Aristides Pereira International Airport . Passengers arriving via Africa must hold an International Certificate of Vaccination . Central African Republic disputed According to the State Department US citizens do not require a visa however according to IATA visa is required . International Certificate of Vaccination required . Chad Visa required International Certificate of Vaccination required . Registration within 72 hours is mandatory prior to arrival . Registration is good for the life of the passport . Chile Visa not required 90 days China Visa required Registration mandatory within 24 hours of arrival ; All visitors are fingerprinted on arrival and departure between the ages of 14 and 70 . 72 - hours visa free visit when in transit at Changsha , Chengdu , Chongqing , Dalian , Guangzhou , Guilin , Harbin , Kunming , Qingdao , Shenyang , Wuhan , Xi'an and Xiamen . 144 - hours visa free visit when in transit at Beijing ( Beijing Capital International Airport ) , Hangzhou , Hebei ( Shijiazhuang Zhengding International Airport ) , Nanjing , Shanghai ( Hongqiao and Pudong international airports , Railway Station and port ) , and Tianjin ( Tianjin Binhai International Airport ) . Hong Kong , Macau , and Taiwan do count as third countries under this policy . Visas for US citizens are valid for up to 10 years . Colombia Visa not required 90 days , extendable up to 180 - days stay within a one - year period Comoros Visa on arrival Democratic Republic of the Congo Visa required International Certificate of Vaccination required . Airport exit fee ( $50 ) must be paid in cash . Registration required . Visas must be issued at the DR Congo embassy in Washington , D.C. Exception : Visa approval may be prearranged along with booking by Virunga National Park ( visitvirunga.org ) for those entering via the Grand Barriere border crossing with Rwanda . Republic of the Congo Visa required International Certificate of Vaccination required . A letter of invitation or written proof of a hotel reservation required . Costa Rica Visa not required 90 days Departure tax of $29 applies . Cote d'Ivoire ! Côte d'Ivoire eVisa eVisa holders must arrive via Port Bouet Airport International Certificate of Vaccination required Croatia Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period Registration with the local police within 24 hours of arrival is mandatory . Cuba Tourist Card required Tourist travel was historically prohibited under U.S. law for U.S. citizens , permanent residents , and others subject to U.S. jurisdiction . Under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations , all persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are not permitted to travel to Cuba , and must be licensed in order to engage in any travel - related transactions pursuant to travel to , from , and within Cuba . In July 2015 , the United States resumed diplomatic relations with Cuba . Discussions on lifting the travel ban have initiated . On June 16 , 2017 , U.S. President Donald Trump announced new travel restrictions . Cyprus Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period Czech Republic Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Denmark Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Citizens of the United States can freely enter and stay in Denmark for up to 90 days every six months , regardless of whether they have stayed in another Schengen area ( except the other Nordic countries ) country prior to entry into Denmark . Djibouti Visa on arrival Obtainable at Djibouti -- Ambouli International Airport . Dominica Visa not required 6 months Departure tax of $22 applies . Dominican Republic Visa not required 30 days , extendable up to 90 days Passport Card or Enhanced Drivers License valid for Sea Travel Ecuador Visa not required 90 days , extendable for another 90 days , per year Egypt eVisa / Visa on arrival eVisa issued for 30 days . 30 days when arriving by air ; Visa on arrival is issued for $25 . Tourists arriving at Sharm El Sheikh , Saint Catherine or Taba airports and remaining in the Sinai resorts do not require a visa up to 15 days El Salvador Visa not required 3 months Equatorial Guinea Visa not required 90 days International Certificate of Vaccination required if you are traveling from a country with risk of yellow fever . Eritrea Visa required Airport departure tax ( $20 ) applies . Estonia Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Ethiopia eVisa / Visa on arrival Obtainable at Addis Ababa Bole International Airport . Visitors are fingerprinted Fiji Visa on arrival ! Visitor 's Permit on arrival 4 months Finland Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area France Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area ( in Regions of France ) Gabon eVisa / Visa on arrival Electronic visa holders must arrive via Libreville International Airport . International Certificate of Vaccination required . Gambia Visa required International Certificate of Vaccination required . Georgia Visa not required 1 year Germany Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Ghana Visa required International Certificate of Vaccination required . Greece Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Grenada Visa not required 3 months , extensions possible Guatemala Visa not required 90 days An exit tax must be paid when departing by air . Guinea Visa required Single entry valid for 3 months . International Certificate of Vaccination required . Guinea - Bissau eVisa / Visa on arrival 90 days Visitors must apply for a visa on arrival in advance or online . Guyana Visa not required 3 months Haiti Visa not required 3 months Honduras Visa not required 3 months Departing airport tax must be paid in cash . Hungary Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Iceland Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area India e-Visa 60 days e-Visa holders must arrive via 25 designated airports or 3 designated seaports . e-Tourist Visa can be obtained twice in a calendar year . $60 fee Confirmation has to be shown at the border where a visa on arrival is issued . Visitors are fingerprinted . American citizens are eligible for a ten - year , multiple - entry tourist visa . Indonesia Visa not required 30 days Iran Visa required Otherwise Iranian visas must be obtained from the Special Interests section of the Embassy of Pakistan , Washington , D.C. US visitors are fingerprinted and photographed upon entry and are ineligible for visa on arrival available to other tourists . Independent travelers from the USA applying on American , British , or Canadian passports must be accompanied by an authorized guide at all times , regardless of previous nationality , ethnic background , or religion . Iraq Visa required Some U.S. citizens must obtain an exit stamp at a Residency Office before departing the country . Some visitors who plan to stay for more than 10 days must also obtain a residency stamp . Visitors who come as part of a government - sponsored tour , upon presentation of proper paperwork from the government , may receive a visa on arrival at Baghdad International Airport for $80 + 1250 Iraqi dinar . Visitors are not required to obtain any other permits , including for Iraqi Kurdistan , or submit blood tests . Ireland Visa not required 3 months Strict application of immigration rules regarding providing proof of the trip purpose , sufficient funds , return ticket and accommodation . Israel Visa not required 3 months Dual nationals ( of Israel and the United States ) who do n't have an Israeli passport , including infants , may be required to obtain an Israeli passport in order to leave Israel . Italy Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Jamaica Visa not required 6 months There is a departure tax for travelers , which is regularly included in airfare . Japan Visa not required 90 days All visitors are fingerprinted Jordan Visa on arrival 30 days ; conditions apply Visa on arrival obtainable at most international ports of entry and at most international land border crossings ( except King Hussein / Allenby Bridge crossing ) . Visa on arrival is issued for 40 JOD ( about $56 ) . Iris scan is taken on arrival and departure Kazakhstan Visa not required 30 days As part of the no - visa pilot program in period 15 July 2014 -- 15 July 2015 . In June 2015 this program was extended until December 31 , 2017 . Kenya eVisa / Visa on arrival 3 months International Certificate of Vaccination is recommended . All visitors are fingerprinted on arrival and departure Kiribati Visa not required 30 days Airport Embarkation Tax of AU $20 is levied on all passengers leaving Kiribati . North Korea Travel restricted US passports holders must obtain a special passport validation from the U.S. federal government before travel . South Korea Visa not required 90 days All visitors are fingerprinted . Kuwait eVisa / Visa on arrival 3 months Kyrgyzstan Visa not required 60 days Laos Visa on arrival 30 days , conditions apply , extendable up to 60 days Available at international airports Wattay Vientiane , Pakse Savannakhet and Luang Prabang , and at land borders Friendship Bridge , Vientiane and Savannakhet ; Nam Heuang Friendship Bridge , Sayabouly Province ; and border crossings at Boten - Mohan , Dansavan - Lao Bao , Houaysay - Chiang Khong , Thakhek - Nakhon Phanom , Nong Haet - Nam Kan , Nam Phao - Kao Cheo , Veun Kham - Dong Calor , and Vangtao - Chong Mek as well as Tha Naleng train station in Vientiane , which connects to the train station in Nongkhai , Thailand . Entry points Napao - Chalo , Taichang - Sophoun , Pakxan - Bungkan , and Xiengkok are open only to visa holders . Latvia Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Lebanon Visa on arrival 1 month extendable for 2 additional months Granted free of charge at Beirut International Airport or any other port of entry if there is no Israeli visa or seal , holding a telephone number , an address in Lebanon , and a non refundable return or circle trip ticket Lesotho Visa not required 14 days , extendable up to 180 days Liberia Visa required International Certificate of Vaccination required . Libya Visa required Visitors travelling to Libya for touristic purposes are required to convert USD 1,000 or equivalent on arrival . Holders of passports bearing an Israeli visa or entry / exit stamps from Israel are not allowed to enter Libya . Liechtenstein Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Lithuania Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Mandatory medical insurance . Luxembourg Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Macedonia Visa not required 90 days Registration with the local police within 24 hours of arrival is mandatory Madagascar Visa on arrival 30 days Available at all airports servicing international flights . Visa on arrival is issued free of charge . Visas for 60 or 90 days available for a fee . Malawi Visa on arrival From 1 October 2015 visitors are generally advised to obtain a visa in advance . Malaysia Visa not required 3 months All visitors are fingerprinted on arrival and departure . Immigration offenses , such as visa overstaying , are punishable by caning . Maldives Visa on arrival 30 days , extendable up to 90 days Visa on arrival is issued free of charge . Mali Visa required Letter of invitation required . International Certificate of Vaccination required . Malta Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Marshall Islands Visa not required unlimited Departure fee of $20 applies . U.S. citizens may live and work freely in the Marshall Islands under the Compact of Free Association . Mauritania Visa on arrival Available at Nouakchott -- Oumtounsy International Airport . International Certificate of Vaccination required . Mauritius Visa not required 90 days Mexico Visa not required 180 days All visitors entering by land and traveling farther than 20 kilometers into Mexico or staying longer than 72 hours should obtain a document Forma Migratoria Multiple . Passport Card or Enhanced Drivers License valid for Land and Sea Travel Micronesia Visa not required unlimited All states except Yap have a departure fee . The fees are $10 for Kosrae and $20 for Pohnpei and Chuuk . U.S. citizens may live and work freely in Micronesia under the Compact of Free Association . There is no limit to the length of time U.S. citizens can remain in the FSM . Moldova Visa not required 90 days within any 6 - month period Registration upon arrival is mandatory . Monaco Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period Mongolia Visa not required 90 days Registration required after 30 days . Montenegro Visa not required 90 days Registration with the local police within 24 hours of arrival is mandatory . Morocco Visa not required 3 months Mozambique Visa on arrival 30 days Myanmar eVisa 28 days . eVisa holders must arrive via Yangon , Nay Pyi Taw or Mandalay airports or from three land border crossings : Tachileik , Myawaddy , and Kawthaung Namibia Visa not required 3 months Nauru Visa required Visas are issued with validity of 30 days . Nepal Visa on arrival 90 days Obtainable at Tribhuvan International Airport and certain land borders . Total of no more than 150 aggregate days in any given calendar year . Netherlands Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area ( European Netherlands ) New Zealand Visa not required 90 days May enter using SmartGate . Nicaragua Visa not required 90 days A tourist card must be purchased for $10 upon arrival . Niger Visa required International Certificate of Vaccination required . Nigeria Visa required Visa can be obtained online . Norway Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Oman eVisa / Visa on arrival 30 days , extendable for 30 days Holders of a visa or entrance stamp of the Emirate of Dubai that is valid for at least 21 days are visa exempt . Holders of a visa for Qatar that is valid for travel to Oman and valid for at least one month are visa exempt when arriving directly from Qatar . Iris scan is taken on arrival Pakistan Visa required Visa on arrival when travelling on business valid for 30 days . Conditions apply . Visa on arrival when travelling as part of a group through a designated tour operator . Palau Visa not required 1 year U.S. citizens may live and work freely in Palau under the Compact of Free Association . Panama Visa not required 180 days Denial of entry or transit to any person who has a criminal conviction . Papua New Guinea Visa on arrival 60 days , extendable for 30 days Visa on arrival is issued free of charge . Paraguay Visa on arrival 90 days A passport is required to enter Paraguay . U.S. Citizens arriving by air may obtain a `` visa en arribo '' ( visa on arrival ) at Silvio Pettirossi International Airport in Asuncion . This is a multiple entry visa with a validity of up to 10 ( ten ) years . The current fee is $160 , payable in U.S. Currency ( credit cards are not accepted ) . If not arriving at Silvio Pettirossi International Airport , prior to traveling to Paraguay , you must apply for a visa in person or by secure messenger at the Paraguayan Embassy in Washington D.C. or the nearest Paraguayan consulate , and pay the fee . Minors must provide a notarized authorization from parent / guardian with their visa application . Peru Visa not required up to 183 days ; determined on arrival Philippines Visa not required 30 days Visa on arrival valid for 59 days is available for $50 . Poland Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Polish Americans must use Polish passport Portugal Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Qatar eVisa / Visa on arrival 30 days Available only at Hamad International Airport , for other ports of entry a Free visa as of 20 Oct 2017 that could change ) and can be extended for 1 month . Holders of a valid common visa issued by Oman are exempt from a visa if arriving from Oman directly . Romania Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period Russia Visa required 72 - hour visa - free for international cruise ship / ferry passengers only if travelling with an organized tour and accompanied at all times by a tour operator . Registration required after 7 business days . American citizens may receive multiple entry visas valid for three years . Rwanda eVisa / Visa on arrival 30 days Visitors are fingerprinted International Certificate of Vaccination required . Saint Kitts and Nevis Visa not required 3 months Saint Lucia Visa not required 6 weeks Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Visa not required 1 month Samoa Visa on arrival ! Entry Permit on arrival 60 days Visa on arrival is issued free of charge . Departure tax of $30 applies . San Marino Visa not required São Tomé and Príncipe Visa not required 15 days International Certificate of Vaccination required . Saudi Arabia Visa required Holders of passports that contain visas or entry / exit stamps for Israel will likely be refused entry . Advance visa is required . No tourist visas available . All visitors are fingerprinted Senegal Visa not required 90 days International Certificate of Vaccination required . Serbia Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period Seychelles Visa on arrival ! Visitor 's Permit on arrival 3 months , extendable up to a year Visa on arrival is issued free of charge . Sierra Leone Visa required International Certificate of Vaccination required . Singapore Visa not required 90 days All visitors are fingerprinted on arrival and departure Immigration offenses , such as visa overstaying , are punishable by caning . Slovakia Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Medical insurance required . Sufficient funds of $50 per person per day required . Registration within 3 working days required . Slovenia Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Registration with the local police within 72 hours of arrival is mandatory . Solomon Islands Visa on arrival ! Visitor 's permit on arrival 3 months within 12 months Visa on arrival is issued free of charge . Somalia Visa required Visa may be obtained on arrival , provided an invitation letter issued by the sponsor has been submitted to the Airport Immigration Department at least 2 days before arrival . South Africa Visa not required 90 days Holders of passports without 2 blank pages may be refused entry . South Sudan Visa required Two blank passport pages required . Spain Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Sri Lanka eVisa / Visa on arrival 30 days Sudan Visa required Holders of passports that contain visas or entry / exit stamps for Israel will likely be refused entry . Exit visa required . Registration within 3 days mandatory . Suriname Visa on arrival ! Tourist Card on arrival 90 days Obtainable at Johan Adolf Pengel International Airport . Swaziland Visa not required 30 days , extendable up to 60 days Sweden Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Switzerland Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period in the Schengen Area Syria Visa required Registration required within 15 days . Departure tax applies at all borders . Persons with passports bearing Israeli visas or entry / exit stamps are not allowed to enter . Tajikistan Visa on arrival 45 days Visa on arrival available only at Dushanbe International Airport . If arriving from a country that has a Tajik diplomatic mission a visa should be obtained in advance . Visa also available online . E-visa holders can enter through all border points . Tanzania Visa on arrival 3 months Ordinary visa available on arrival for $100 Thailand Visa not required 30 days ( maximum two visits annually if not arriving by air ) Timor - Leste Visa on arrival 30 days for arrivals by air only Togo Visa on arrival 7 days Tonga Visa on arrival 31 days Visa on arrival is issued free of charge . Trinidad and Tobago Visa not required 90 days Tunisia Visa not required 90 days An exit fee of 30 Tunisian Dinars is required for non-residents exiting Tunisia . Turkey e-Visa / Visa on arrival 3 months From 28 December 2017 , eVisa policy for US citizens has been reinstated . Turkmenistan Visa required Departure fee of $25 applies . 10 - day visa on arrival if holding letter of invitation issued by a company registered in Turkmenistan with a prior approval from the Foreign Ministry . Tuvalu Visa on arrival 1 month , extendable up to 3 months Visa on arrival is issued free of charge . Uganda eVisa / Visa on arrival Determined at the port of entry . Must apply online at least 2 business days or more prior to travel . As of March 2017 , airlines were refusing passengers permission to board flights to Uganda if they did not have a print - out of the document showing that they had successfully applied for an eVisa . Ugandan immigration authorities also may require additional documentation , including proof of a return plane ticket and detailed tour itinerary in Uganda . International Certificate of Vaccination required . Ukraine Visa not required 90 days within any 180 day period United Arab Emirates Visa on arrival 30 days Visa on arrival is issued free of charge . Iris scan taken on arrival United Kingdom Visa not required 6 months Uruguay Visa not required 3 months Uzbekistan Visa required Registration within 3 days mandatory . Vanuatu Visa not required 30 days , extendable up to 120 days Vatican City Visa not required Venezuela Visa required All visa applications must be made in person , and all applicants will be interviewed at the Venezuelan embassy or consulate . Vietnam eVisa 30 days A single entry eVisa is available . Phú Quốc visa exemption for up to 30 days . Yemen Visa required Registration mandatory . Exit visa required for stays over 30 days . Zambia eVisa / Visa on arrival 90 days ( exact period determined on arrival , later extendable free of charge ) All visitors are fingerprinted . Two blank pages required International Certificate of Vaccination required . Electronic visa also available . Zimbabwe eVisa / Visa on arrival 3 months Tourism purposes only . Electronic visa also available .