As the two - time defending Super Bowl champions , the 1990 San Francisco 49ers were favored to become first NFL team to win three consecutive Super Bowls . Dating back to 1989 , the 49ers completed a fifteen - game unbeaten streak in the regular season ( 5 victories in the last 5 games of 1989 and 10 victories in the first ten games of 1990 ) , en route to compiling the league 's best regular season record ( 14 -- 2 ) while quarterback Joe Montana was named regular season MVP . Facing the New York Giants in the NFC Championship Game , the 49ers defense was able to hold backup quarterback Jeff Hostetler and the Giants without a touchdown , but the tide of the game changed when Montana was sacked by Leonard Marshall while rolling out of the quarterback pocket ; a play which injured Montana and forced him to leave the game . With only a few minutes left , 49ers running back Roger Craig fumbled while the 49ers were attempting to score the game clinching touchdown , and the ball was recovered by the Giants linebacker Lawrence Taylor , setting up the drive to kick their fifth field goal of the game with seconds left to win the game 15 -- 13 . The words of Pat Summerall `` There will be no three - peat ! '' haunt the 49ers to this day . The NFC Championship game also turned out to be Montana 's next - to - last appearance in a 49er uniform , as elbow injuries cost him the entire 1991 season , and despite his recovery he lost his starting position to Steve Young . After winning Super Bowl XLVIII , the Seattle Seahawks returned to the title game the following year , Super Bowl XLIX , where they faced the New England Patriots . The Seahawks built a ten - point lead to end the third quarter 24 - 14 . Previously , no team in Super Bowl history had ever overcome a fourth - quarter deficit of more than seven points . The Patriots , however , rallied with two touchdowns to take a 28 -- 24 lead with roughly two minutes left in the game . The Seahawks threatened to score in the final moments , driving the ball to the Patriot 's 1 - yard line . With 26 seconds remaining in the game , they decided to pass the ball in a highly scrutinized play that resulted in Patriots rookie cornerback Malcolm Butler making a game - saving interception from Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson . However , the game was not decided at this point since the Patriots were backed up against its own end zone , so if Patriots quarterback Tom Brady went too far back before kneeling his team would concede a safety and have to kick the ball back to the Seahawks , who would only need a field goal to win . However , Seahawks defensive lineman Michael Bennett was drawn across line of scrimmage and flagged for encroachment which penalized Seattle five yards and moved the ball to the New England six - yard line , ending the Seahawks ' hope of a comeback . The New England Patriots are the most recent team to return to the Super Bowl as defending champions , playing in Super Bowl LII against the Philadelphia Eagles after defeating the Atlanta Falcons the previous year in Super Bowl LI 34 - 28 in overtime . Despite leading 33 - 32 late in the fourth quarter , Eagles quarterback and eventual Super Bowl MVP Nick Foles threw the what would turn out to be the game - winning touchdown to tight end Zach Ertz with 2 : 21 left on the clock , giving the Eagles a 38 - 33 lead ( two - point conversion no good ) . On the ensuing Patriots possession , Eagles defensive lineman Brandon Graham sacked Patriots quarterback Tom Brady and forced a fumble which was recovered by Eagles rookie defensive lineman Derek Barnett . The Patriots received the ball back with 1 : 10 with no timeouts after a Jake Elliott field goal increased the Eagles lead to 41 - 33 . The Patriots managed to take the ball down to their own 49 - yard line with 0 : 09 left , setting up a Hail Mary attempt . Brady was able to avoid a sack and sling a ball down field , but the Eagles secondary was able to cause an incomplete pass with no time left on the clock , securing the Eagles their first Super Bowl victory . Despite this loss , the Patriots remained the last team to repeat in the Super Bowl when they ironically defeated the Eagles 24 - 21 in Super Bowl XXXIX .