Will Forte as Philip Tandy Miller ( first called `` Phil '' , then `` Tandy '' ) , an average , socially challenged man and seemingly the only human survivor after a virus wiped out nearly the entire population about a year earlier . He lives in his hometown of Tucson , Arizona , having already searched North America for other living people . In his pre-virus life , he worked dead - end jobs and lived in a studio apartment for which his parents paid the rent . Out of loneliness , he has adopted various sports balls as `` buddies '' and drawn faces on them . He has painted `` Alive in Tucson '' on billboards and highway signs during his trip , hoping others might see the message . Forte describes him as `` a selfish person who sometimes borders on being a flat - out sociopath '' . Jacob Tremblay portrays young Phil , who appears to his brother Mike in multiple visions in the episode `` Pitch Black '' . Kristen Schaal as Carol Andrew Pilbasian Miller , a notary from Delaware who sees Phil 's `` Alive in Tucson '' sign and travels to Tucson . She pressures Phil to marry her so they can work towards repopulating the Earth with `` legitimate '' children . Carol is shown to be compassionate and is good friends with Melissa and Todd but can hold grudges and be stridently moralistic . Carol and Phil divorce in the middle of the first season , but Carol chooses to leave with Phil after he is banished from Tucson and they subsequently remarry . In the second season , she and Phil regain the survivors ' trust , and she becomes pregnant with Phil 's child after he finally tells her he loves her . In the fourth season , she gives birth to twin daughters Bezequille and Mike , the latter named for Phil 's brother . January Jones as Melissa Chartres , a former real estate agent from Akron , Ohio who used to be married to the late Greg until he cheated on her with a police officer . She meets Phil and Carol after they crash their pickup truck into her limousine . She saw Phil 's original `` Alive in Tucson '' sign and traveled to Tucson before Carol . Phil is initially very attracted to her and frequently vies for her affection despite having just married Carol , so Melissa does not like or trust him . She begins dating Todd after he joins the group . In the second season , Melissa decides she does not want to have children and breaks up with Todd , but when she changes her mind , she and Gail eventually agree to simultaneously date Todd . In season 3 , Melissa kills Darrell , one of paranoiac Pat Brown 's crew , and consequently starts acting strangely , ultimately forcing Todd to lock her in a focus - group room to stop her from jumping off a building . The survivors help cure her condition using Clozapine , and Melissa marries Todd near the end of the season . Mel Rodriguez as Todd Rodriguez , another surviving man who , while on his way to Mexico , finds Phil and company after he sees some fireworks set off by Phil . Kind and selfless , Todd 's nature leads to him becoming the most likable member of the group , much to Phil 's increasing annoyance . He and Melissa become very close and begin a romantic relationship shortly after they meet . In season 2 , Todd 's love life becomes increasingly complicated : he finds himself torn among Melissa , who breaks up with him for a while ; Gail , who starts dating him simultaneously with Melissa ; Erica , who tells him that the late Phil II chose him as a surrogate father for her baby ; and even Carol , who approaches him with a surprise request to impregnate her when she thinks Phil ( Tandy ) is sterile . In season 3 , when Gail breaks up with him , Todd hopes to win back Melissa until he is frightened by her strange behavior resulting from killing Darrell . He is eventually able to cure her condition using Clozapine and they get married . Cleopatra Coleman as Erica Dundee , an Australian woman and self - described `` political nerd . '' After the outbreak of the virus , she met Gail at the White House and the two became traveling companions . They discover Phil upon spotting a fire he started , then move in with the rest of the survivors . In the second season , Erica becomes pregnant with Phil II 's child but decides to not involve him in their child 's life when he openly flirts with Carol . In `` Smart and Stupid , '' she tells Mike , whom she is dating , that she was imprisoned for armed bank robbery before traveling to the United States and getting a job at the State Department under an assumed name . Toward the end of season 3 , she gives birth to her daughter , whom she names Dawn . Mary Steenburgen as Gail Klosterman ( recurring season 1 ; starring season 2 -- present ) , a chef and former restaurant owner from Wilmington , North Carolina . After the outbreak of the virus , she met another woman named Erica , and the two became traveling companions . Gail mentions having had a husband but does not reveal what happened to him . In the second season , she develops a relationship with another survivor named Gordon , but after Gordon dies of a heart attack , she has trouble finding closure and even dresses up a mannequin to look like Gordon , until she starts dating Todd . In the third season , she tells Carol , who wants Gail to adopt her so her child can have a grandmother , that she also had a child who died before the outbreak of the virus . To avoid being annoyed by Carol about their newly formed family , Gail finds solace in an elevator , but the elevator loses its power and traps her inside until Phil restores the power in `` The Spirit of St. Lewis '' . She begins a romantic relationship with Erica during the six months after the episode `` Name 20 Picnics ... Now ! '' , which continues into the fourth season and leads to them getting married .