( hide ) Character Actor / actress Starring seasons Recurring seasons Episode count Hank David Berman N / A 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 Old Jane dated Hank before she was shot . Later in the first season , Hank tried to restart their relationship ; however , new Jane was not interested . During the second season , Jane and Stacey invite Hank to have dinner at their house as a guise for a date . However , Hank brings his new girlfriend to the dinner leading to an awkward evening of conversation . Hank later described it as the best night of his life . In the fifth episode of Season 3 , `` Prom '' , he went to Teri and asked her if she could get Jane to help him with a legal case involving his current wife , Irina , leaving him after two months being married . Teri suggested that Hank ask Grayson to help him instead because he 's dealing with a similar heartbreak from his previous bride , Vanessa , leaving him at the altar . After telling his story on how he met Irina and despite Kim 's warning , Grayson agrees to take the case . After winning his case , Hank begins dating Teri at an alternate prom hosted by Jane and Stacy . Hank appeared again saving Kim in his superhero alter - ego form from a mugger . Later Hank is being sued for assault charges , Kim forces the mugger to drop the lawsuit against Hank . Hank loses his job as a bailiff and later joins the police force . Vanessa Hemmings Jaime Ray Newman N / A 1 , 2 , 3 10 Jaime Ray Newman Vanessa is a lawyer at Dewey and Pearce . She met Grayson and Jane while defending Confetti from murder charges . Grayson and Vanessa hit it off quickly romantically . Jane , who still harbors intense romantic feelings for Grayson , was very envious of their relationship . At the end of season two , Grayson proposed marriage to Vanessa who accepted . Within the show 's universe , Vanessa 's father is a judge sitting on the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit . Vanessa left Grayson at the altar because she felt he could never love her the way he had loved Deb . Vanessa returned to represent a couple in a case against a client that Kim was representing ( which Vanessa would lose ) , and later apologize to Grayson for dumping him at the altar . Tony Nicastro David Denman N / A 1 , 2 8 David Denman Tony first appears as a charming lawyer who works for Bogart and Markov . He seems to be very interested in Jane , and , although she still has feelings for Grayson , Jane agrees to move on and accepts Tony 's request to go out . Their relationship starts off well with Tony asking Jane to spend some time at a Bed & Breakfast in Napa with him after only a few dates . Jane , at first , is wary about being intimate with a man in her new body but accepts his invitation anyway . Tony is also eager to represent Jane at her disbarment hearing but later turns her down when he learns she was married to Ethan during the course of their relationship and that she was married to Ethan so he could be on her insurance . Tony says he ca n't represent her anymore because now he knows about her insurance fraud and he tells her that they need to take things slow . Jane is very hurt about him not returning her calls and finds out where is having lunch and storms in on Tony having lunch with a slim , blonde woman , believing them to be on a date . After confronting Tony and essentially embarrassing herself in front of them , Tony later angrily informs her that that was a job interview and she probably ruined his chances at getting the job . He then breaks up with her for good . The two then enter a very heated battle in court when Tony represents a man being sued for having two wives at the same time while Jane represents the women but in the end Jane wins the case . They then make up and their relationship heats up again only to be ended when Tony tells her that he got the job in Washington D.C. and asks her to move with him but she declines . Judge Madeline Summers Rosie O'Donnell N / A Rosie O'Donnell Summers is a no nonsense judge who employed Jane as her law clerk after Jane graduated from law school . Despite their professional relationship , Jane and Madeline are personal friends . They have a running Scrabble competition , and during the episode `` Make Me a Match '' , after the old Jane had encouraged Madeline to buy an online personals subscription , but having no luck , new Jane urges Madeline to sue the company to get her $25,000 back and represents her in the case . During the trial , Jane discovers Madeline high expectations of men after looking for another man like her late husband . Judge Rita Mayson Vickie Eng N / A 1 , 2 10 Mayson appears in several episodes as a fair judge in several Harrison Parker cases . Judge Warren Libby Gregory Alan Williams N / A 1 , 2 , 3 15 Another judge who frequently presides over Harrison Parker cases .