( hide ) Character Actor / actress Starring seasons Recurring seasons Episode count Kim Kaswell Kate Levering 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 N / A 70 Kim is an ambitious and cut - throat lawyer at the firm who has always looked down on Jane for her weight . It is hinted that Kim is actually jealous of Jane 's success and smarts and the two are rivals in the workplace , always attempting to one up the other . She and Teri dislike each other and constantly make snide remarks to each other . In season one , Kim becomes interested in Grayson , much to Jane 's dismay . The two eventually kiss but Kim refuses to date him because Grayson is n't ready for a relationship . In season two , Kim becomes closer with Parker after she has a pregnancy scare and the two begin to date but their relationship is threatened by Claire Harrison . After Claire sabotages Kim 's court case , Kim is fired from the firm . She breaks up with Parker before she leaves . In the third season , she is working as a freelance lawyer from out of a coffee shop . Parker attempts to apologize to her and coax her back into law but she rebuffs him . When she is approached by a former client to handle her divorce , Kim re-enters law . When she threatens to take all of her clients away from the firm , Parker makes her partner to stay . In season four , Kim reluctantly promotes Jane to secondary partner to handle the firm 's financial troubles while Parker is away . She and Luke date but she does not pursue a relationship with him as she is pregnant with Parker 's child . However , when she tells Parker , he tells her that he is getting back together with his ex-girlfriend and makes her the new head of the firm , leaving her heartbroken . Kim refuses to let her impending motherhood keep her from being an excellent lawyer , going as so far to insist on finishing her summation via video when she goes into labor . She gives birth to a son and while recovering at the hospital , she is informed that Parker wants to sell the firm . Jane convinces Kim to block the deal and Kim agrees to fight to keep the firm . Kim would later find romance with a writer who was working as a temporary . After he is fired for posting about being part of a club that hunts for Bigfoot , Kim represented him in a lawsuit against the company , and although they would lose the case Kim and the writer would end up kissing and they became a couple . She defended Hank against a lawsuit from a man who attempted to mug her . She forced him to drop his lawsuit against Hank by reminding the man that since she was the victim in his attempt , Kim will let this go to court and make sure he receives nothing less than consecutive life sentences . She defends him again when he loses his job as a bailiff and later on helped get him a job on the police force . Jay Parker Josh Stamberg 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 N / A 52 Josh Stamberg Jay Parker is the firm 's boss whose dalliance with another man 's wife led to Jane being shot . He likes Jane 's work ethic although he hates the way new Jane fights to always do what is right instead of just collecting billable hours . Despite his dislike for her actions , Parker does save Jane 's job after she was threatened with disbarment . He is also a fan of a men 's magazine article , which is where he get most of his fashion style and tips on seducing a woman . Parker and Kim begin dating in the second season but their relationship is complicated when the co-owner of the firm , Claire Harrison kisses him . Kim breaks up with Parker for cheating on her and Parker becomes enraged when he finds out Claire used the firm to commit fraud . He demands her resignation and attempts to win Kim back in the third season . When he promotes her to partner , the two resume dating . Parker 's ex-girlfriend Elisa returns and he hires her as his new secretary , making Kim jealous . Eventually , Elisa reveals that he is the father of her son . When she sued him for sole custody of Eric , Parker hired Kim to counter it and she refused based on the fact that maybe it was better that he stayed away from them . When Parker learns of her pregnancy , he originally promised Kim that he would be there for her . However when he calls , Parker admitted leaving for Toronto to form a family with Elisa , selling his share of the company to Kim and effectively ending his relationship with her . In season 5 , Parker tries to sell the firm unexpectedly . However , Jane conspires with a client to make the firm too expensive for Parker to hang onto and he surrenders his partnership rights . Claire Harrison Natasha Henstridge N / A Natasha Henstridge At the end of season two , Claire is the co-owner and 50 % equity partner in the law firm . She had a romance with Parker prior to the beginning of the series and left after the romance ended . Claire returned to the firm after suing her husband for divorce . Claire broke up Kim and Parker 's developing romance by kissing Parker . Parker later demanded Claire 's resignation after it was revealed that Claire committed fraud to overturn a prenuptial agreement with her husband . Grayson Kent Jackson Hurst 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 N / A 76 Grayson was Deb 's boyfriend until her death . He was planning to propose to her and was in deep mourning for the beginning of the series . He is hired by the firm , unaware that Deb was still near him in the form of Jane 's body . He had a short fling with Kim and also dated a lawyer named Vanessa , although he was initially unsure about getting serious with her . However , he tells Jane that he did not want to lose another great woman and reveals his plan to propose . Jane stormed out and he followed her , not understanding why she was upset . As he followed her , he was hit by a car . When Jane ran to him , he smiled at her and said Deb 's name . In the third season , Grayson wakes up from his coma although he has short term memory loss . He eventually regains his memories but only up until he asked Jane to be his best man . He continues with his wedding plans but Vanessa leaves him at the altar as she feels he does not love her the same way he loved Deb . He shares a kiss with Stacy when he represents her in a case and confesses the reason he likes her so much is because she reminds him of Deb . When Stacy turns him down , he realizes he has feelings for Jane and finally declares his love for her on Jane 's wedding day . Grayson kisses Jane at the hospital after Elaine 's passing , only to be interrupted by the Old Jane , who reveals the truth that Jane was Deb all along . Grayson scolds Jane for thinking he could n't love her as Deb in Jane 's body . He tells Jane that he wants to begin their relationship anew . He was planning to propose to Jane and was shot . He survived and arrived to the hospital but the bullet in his chest caused complications , and despite efforts by the hospital staff to save him , he was pronounced dead . In Heaven , Grayson is startled to run into Fred and learns he was Deb 's guardian angel . Grayson ends up hitting the `` return '' button and is reborn on Earth , calling Jane to let him know he is in the body of a convict in jail , Ian Holt ( Jeffrey Pierce ) , who was wrongfully convicted of murder and was about to be executed but died before the event could take place . Jane ( who later told Stacy about Grayson taking Ian 's body ) would eventually clear Ian of the crime before the execution and upon his release the two were reunited and restart their wedding plans . He faces trouble from those who see him as Ian as Kim and Owen believe he is just using Jane for her money . Paul does reveal he knows the truth and tells Grayson he is now his guardian angel too . It is later revealed that Teri knew of Ian 's past , as it turns out that Ian was a gifted pianist while they were in high school and was responsible for ruining Teri 's chances at stardom ( he was supposed to help Teri audition for Star Search but showed up completely drunk to play piano and unintentionally humiliated her ) , prompting Grayson to allow Ian to `` make up '' for disappointing Teri . In the end , Grayson used Ian 's talents to serenade Jane with a rendition of `` It Had To Be You . '' Teri Lee Margaret Cho 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 N / A 72 Margaret Cho Teri is Jane 's assistant and one of her best friends . She is never afraid to speak her mind and is one of Jane 's biggest supporters at work . She often does detective work for Jane . She is also an aspiring musician and singer , and she performed at the grand opening of Stacy 's `` pakery '' . Jane gave legal aid to her brother and mother at one point in the series . However , when she tried to help Paul out with his debt by pretending to be a lawyer , she wound up in jail for impersonating a lawyer . In her time in prison , Teri discovers she has a following and decides to quit the firm to pursue a music career full - time . She was a high school classmate and friend of Ian Holt , who she holds responsible for ruining her chance at being a singer , thus prompting Grayson ( who now inhabits Ian 's body ) to make up for the mistake , and she forgives him . In the series finale , Teri tells Jane that she 'll continue pursuing her music career and turns down her offer to come back as her assistant . Owen French Lex Medlin 4 , 5 , 6 41 Owen is a no - nonsense , but offbeat judge , who wooed Jane after he first met her when he was presiding over a case she was handling in the third season . There were some conflicts between them as Jane still had to argue cases in front of him and the two struggled to remain professional at work . At the end of the third season , Owen asked Jane to spend a year with him in New Zealand , but she declined . Owen surprised her by joining her on her trip to Italy but because of the firm 's financial difficulties , their vacation was cut short so jane could return to Los Angeles . Owen has a sister named Olivia , who went to high school model U.N. with Old Jane and still held a grudge against her for breaking her best friend 's heart , as well as a younger brother named Charlie who is the black sheep of the family for being a lazy moocher . Owen was embarrassed by his brother and cut him off for good after Charlie attempted to a sue a strip club . He was previously married once and initially told Jane that he did not believe in marriage after his first divorce . However , in season four , Owen proposed to Jane and he leaves her to plan the wedding to go visit a friend but Teri uncovers evidence that proves Owen lied . Jane believes it was because he was having second thoughts about marriage and is devastated . Yet when Owen returns , he admits that he had a heart attack and was in a coma after surgery . He offers to break up with Jane so she can find someone younger and healthier . Jane insists on staying engaged , much to his delight . On their wedding day , Owen suffers another heart attack when he sees Jane and Grayson kissing . He collapses and the wedding is called off . The season four finale left ambiguity as to whether Owen had died and been inhabited by the spirit of the old Jane . In season five , it was revealed that ' old Jane ' did indeed return to Earth , but that she never entered Owen 's body - he survived the heart attack and eventually recovered . Jane attempts to reconcile with him but Owen refuses all her apologies . Shortly after , Kim approaches Owen about becoming a partner in Harrison - Parker and he agrees , becoming Jane 's new boss . He assigns Jane cases specifically targeted to make her feel guilty , such as the case of a woman suing her fiancé who jilted her . Later in the season , Owen accepts Jane 's apology and also tells her that he is sorry for treating her poorly at work . Owen is approached by Stacy to be her sperm donor and he accepts . The two date on and off throughout her pregnancy and when he learns that she is having twins , he tells her that he wants to part of her life with the children and proposed , although in the series finale they postponed the wedding so the twins can be born after Stacy goes into labor and delivers .