No . overall No. in season Title Animated by Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code Viewers ( millions ) 41 `` The Awakening '' Moi Animation Giancarlo Volpe Aaron Ehasz September 21 , 2007 ( 2007 - 09 - 21 ) 301 -- Aang awakens to find himself weakened , his head full of hair , and all of his friends dressed in Fire Nation clothing riding a stolen ship . He is dismayed to discover that the world believes him to be dead , just like when he was frozen in ice . Sokka believes it to be a great thing , since it means the Fire Nation wo n't be hunting Team Avatar anymore and that they wo n't be expecting Aang at the invasion . Zuko and Azula are welcomed home as heroes , where Fire Lord Ozai makes his first appearance and congratulates Zuko for killing the Avatar . Zuko realizes Azula credited him for ulterior motives of her own . Aang tries to run away by himself , but his friends find him . He realizes that with the fall of Ba Sing Se , secrecy is their greatest advantage , and gives up his glider to the lava flows of Avatar Roku 's island . 42 `` The Headband '' JM Animation Joaquim Dos Santos John O'Bryan September 28 , 2007 ( 2007 - 09 - 28 ) 302 -- Aang and friends steal some clothes as temporary disguises while traveling in the Fire Nation , and Aang is accidentally taken to a Fire Nation school . He hides his tattoos with a headband and long sleeves , and learns the Fire Nation pledge of loyalty as well as the propaganda about the death of the Airbenders . He organizes a school - wide dance party for the up - tight Fire Nation kids . When the principal arrives to shut it down the kids help Aang escape . Capoeira is shown as a Fire Nation traditional dance . Meanwhile , Zuko starts to believe the Avatar is alive and hires an assassin to kill Aang . 43 `` The Painted Lady '' Moi Animation Ethan Spaulding Joshua Hamilton October 5 , 2007 ( 2007 - 10 - 05 ) 303 -- The gang arrives at a Fire Nation village populated by sick and starving people . They are sick because of the nearby Fire Nation ammunitions factory polluting the river . Katara convinces them to stay by making Appa appear sick and assumes the role of `` The Painted Lady , '' a local legend , to heal the sick and steal food from the factory . She ends up destroying the factory once Aang finds out her ruse , spurring the soldiers to attack the village . Katara reveals herself to the villagers , who thank her for her selfless aid . Katara is also thanked by the spirit of the real Painted Lady . 44 `` Sokka 's Master '' JM Animation Giancarlo Volpe Tim Hedrick October 12 , 2007 ( 2007 - 10 - 12 ) 304 -- Sokka feels left out as he is the only person of the group unable to bend . He finds sword master Piandao to train him , forging his own sword out of a meteorite . The sword master teaches Sokka the philosophy of swordsmanship by giving him various seemingly boring tasks like painting and rock - gardening . When he gains Piandao 's respect he reveals he is not from the Fire Nation . Piandao says he knew that already and that the ways of the sword belongs to all nations . He gives Sokka a white lotus Pai Sho tile as a farewell gift . Meanwhile , Iroh devises a plan to escape prison and starts training in secret . Note : At the end of the episode , Sokka gives Toph a piece of the meteorite . She bends it to create the Nickelodeon splatter shape . 45 5 `` The Beach '' Moi Animation Joaquim Dos Santos Katie Mattila October 19 , 2007 ( 2007 - 10 - 19 ) 305 -- Zuko , Azula , Mai , and Ty Lee are forced to go on vacation to Ember Island . After winning a volleyball game they get invited to a party . Azula tries to flirt but scares guys away with her psychotic raving . Zuko sees a guy flirt with Mai and angrily destroys a vase , prompting her to tell him off . Later around a campfire Ty Lee reveals she is so outgoing because she grew up with six identical sisters and hated it . Mai reveals her parents worried about their careers and gave Mai anything she wanted as long as she acted cold and proper . Zuko reveals he hates himself because he is not sure of the difference between right and wrong anymore . Azula reveals that she knew her mother thought she was a monster before brushing it off by claiming that her mother was correct . They bond by returning to the party and trashing the place as the host looks on in horror . Meanwhile , Aang and his best friends are attacked by Zuko 's assassin , who pyrokinetically / thermokinetically generates extremely destructive beams of red - hot fire from his third eye . 46 6 `` The Avatar and the Firelord '' JM Animation Ethan Spaulding Elizabeth Welch Ehasz October 26 , 2007 ( 2007 - 10 - 26 ) 306 -- Aang and Zuko both learn about the strong and close childhood friendship of Avatar Roku and Fire - lord Sozin . Sozin suggested to Roku that , as the pinnacle of civilization , the Fire Nation should control the destiny of the entire world to ensure universal prosperity . As Roku was the Avatar , he knew the importance of balance between all people and disagreed . When Sozin later greedily took an Earth Kingdom colony , Roku defeated him in battle and threatened to kill him if he again tried to do anything that crossed that line . When Roku 's island volcano erupted years later , Sozin came to help . But , at the last moment , when Roku was overcome by volcanic gases , Sozin realized that he could rule the world if he let Roku die , and he abandoned him . Roku then died from the lava and was reincarnated as Aang . In his prison cell , Iroh tells Zuko that as the great - grandson of both Roku and Sozin , he alone has the ability to resolve their endless conflict and restore order and peace to the world . At the end of the episode , Toph asks if friendships can transcend life times where both Aang and Katara acknowledge and accept Toph 's inutition ( implying that Aang 's next incarnation , Korra , will befriend both Katara and Toph ) . 47 7 `` The Runaway '' Moi Animation Giancarlo Volpe Joshua Hamilton November 2 , 2007 ( 2007 - 11 - 02 ) 307 -- Katara expresses her disapproval when Toph begins scamming Fire Nation civilians for quick cash . Toph thinks Katara is acting too motherly , and a rift forms within the group . To patch things up , Katara decides to pull a scam with Toph , but they are caught by Zuko 's assassin , Combustion Man . He uses them as bait in an attempt to kill Aang , but Katara 's quick thinking saves the day . 48 8 `` The Puppetmaster '' JM Animation Joaquim Dos Santos Tim Hedrick November 9 , 2007 ( 2007 - 11 - 09 ) 308 -- The gang discovers that there have been strange disappearances in a Fire Nation town during a full moon . They befriend an old innkeeper named Hama , who reveals that she is a waterbender from the Southern Water Tribe that had been taken away sixty years previously alongside her fellow Southern waterbenders . She becomes Katara 's mentor and shares with her the tragic story of her life as a longtime prisoner of the Fire Nation . A horrified Katara discovers that Hama is enacting her revenge by kidnapping Fire Nation civilians with bloodbending , a sinister and dark technique of waterbending which can only be used by an incredibly strong and skilled waterbender , and only during a full moon when his or her waterbending abilities are at their strongest potential . The resulting battle forces Katara to use the technique against Hama to save Aang and Sokka . Hama is taken away by the village , and she congratulates Katara on mastering bloodbending . A horrified and saddened Katara cries and Aang and Sokka comfort her . 49 9 `` Nightmares and Daydreams '' Moi Animation Ethan Spaulding John O'Bryan November 16 , 2007 ( 2007 - 11 - 16 ) 309 -- The invasion is four days away , and Aang begins to feel nervous about confronting the Fire - Lord . Feeling that he is unprepared , he trains constantly and loses sleep , causing him to hallucinate and have nightmares . After three straight days , it takes the collaboration of Sokka , Toph , and Katara to get him to finally sleep and feel confident about facing Fire Lord Ozai . 50 10 `` The Day of Black Sun , Part 1 : The Invasion '' JM Animation Giancarlo Volpe Michael Dante DiMartino November 30 , 2007 ( 2007 - 11 - 30 ) 310 3.77 On the day of the solar eclipse , many of the characters from the previous episodes reunite with the gang to help them fight and the invasion begins . Hakoda returns with a ragtag team of several allies whom the group has met during their adventures . Aang finally kisses Katara as sign of his strong feelings for her , worried that she may not return . They successfully infiltrate the Fire Nation capital as the invasion force breaks through many security barriers . Aang reaches the Fire - Lord 's palace ... only to find out that no one is home . 51 11 `` The Day of Black Sun , Part 2 : The Eclipse '' Moi Animation Joaquim Dos Santos Aaron Ehasz November 30 , 2007 ( 2007 - 11 - 30 ) 311 3.77 As the eclipse begins , Sokka , Aang , and Toph search for the Fire - Lord , but only find Azula in an underground bunker , who stalls them . When Sokka realises her plan , she provokes him by telling him of Suki 's capture . Zuko confronts his father in another bunker . He tells Ozai Azula struck down the Avatar , who is alive , that the Fire Nation only spreads fear and hatred , and in order to restore peace he will join the Avatar . Zuko refuses to kill Ozai as that is the Avatar 's destiny , not his . As he leaves , Ozai stalls him by revealing the events of the night Fire - Lord Azulon died . He had been ordered to kill Zuko , but Zuko 's mother sought an alternative , creating a treasonous plan for Ozai to take the throne , resulting in her banishment . The eclipse ends and Ozai attacks . Zuko redirects Ozai 's lightning back at him and leaves . Iroh single - handedly breaks out from prison before Zuko can join him . Aang is forced to allow his army to be captured , but flees with his friends to the Western Air Temple with Zuko trailing them on a stolen warship balloon . 52 12 `` The Western Air Temple '' JM Animation Ethan Spaulding Elizabeth Welch Ehasz Tim Hedrick July 14 , 2008 ( 2008 - 07 - 14 ) 312 -- Zuko follows Aang and his friends to the Western Air Temple , seeking to join their group . There , Zuko desperately tries to prove to them that he has changed for the better . It is only after Zuko helps save them from Combustion Man that he receives their acceptance as Aang 's firebending teacher and the fifth member of Team Avatar . However , an embittered and venomous Katara still refuses to believe that Zuko has really changed and threatens to take his life at the slightest sign of any treachery . 53 13 `` The Firebending Masters '' Moi Animation Giancarlo Volpe John O'Bryan July 15 , 2008 ( 2008 - 07 - 15 ) 313 -- Zuko tries to teach Aang how to firebend , but has lost his own ability to do so as he is no longer reliant on rage . Toph suggests they learn from the original source of firebending , the mighty dragons . Zuko and Aang travel to nearby ruins of the Sun Warrior civilization . Zuko reveals that his uncle Iroh killed the last dragon long ago , a glory hunt that earns the firebender the title of ' Dragon ' . After finding the Sun Warriors still exist they must carry a sacred flame up to the mountain to meet the dragons , but their flames go out at the last moment . They perform the dragon dance seen in the ruins , and the last two dragons reveal that the true secret of firebending is life , not destruction . Iroh had lied about the dragon 's extinction after receiving similar training . Both Aang and Zuko begin to firebend again , stronger and more skillfully than before . 54 14 `` The Boiling Rock , Part 1 '' JM Animation Joaquim Dos Santos May Chan July 16 , 2008 ( 2008 - 07 - 16 ) 314 3.97 Sokka and Zuko infiltrate the Fire Nation 's top prison , the Boiling Rock , to find Sokka 's father Hakoda . It is surrounded by a boiling lake , trapping Sokka and Zuko when their balloon crashes . They find Suki and hatch an escape plan with Sokka disguised as a guard . Zuko is captured and the warden recognises him , being Mai 's uncle . A prisoner , Chit Sang , blackmails them into letting him help . As they are nearing escape , a new batch of prisoners arrive , including Sokka 's father Hakoda . Sokka , Zuko , and Suki decide to stay to save him . As Chit Sang and his friends leave without them but make a mistake . 55 15 `` The Boiling Rock , Part 2 '' Moi Animation Ethan Spaulding Joshua Hamilton July 16 , 2008 ( 2008 - 07 - 16 ) 315 3.97 Sokka , Zuko , Suki , and Chit Sang create a new plan for escaping the prison after the original plan failed . Mai appears and demands to know why Zuko left her . He says he 's trying to save the Fire Nation , not destroy it . They take the warden hostage to escape on the gondola over the boiling water . The guards attempt to cut the line following the warden 's orders , but Mai saves them by stopping the guards . Azula is furious over their betrayal , but Mai declares she loves Zuko more than she fears Azula . After Ty Lee stops Azula 's attack on Mai with Chi - blocking and tries to aid her escape , Azula furiously has them both imprisoned . 56 16 `` The Southern Raiders '' Moi Animation Joaquim Dos Santos Elizabeth Welch Ehasz July 17 , 2008 ( 2008 - 07 - 17 ) 316 4.23 Azula chases Aang from the temple . Zuko confronts Katara about her distrust of him and tries to gain her friendship . He decides to help Katara find the soldier responsible for Kya 's untimely death . Aang warns her that revenge is not the answer . Along the way , Katara 's behavior becomes increasingly aggressive , and she even resorts to mercilessly bloodbending a Fire Nation soldier . They eventually find the retired soldier , Yan Rha , where Katara discovers that her mother had died protecting her . Despite Katara 's uncontrollable rage and anger , she is unable to take revenge on such a pathetic person . Katara and Zuko leave , and Katara finally forgives Zuko and accepts him as a good friend in the form of a warm and friendly hug . 57 17 `` The Ember Island Players '' JM Animation Giancarlo Volpe Tim Hedrick , Josh Hamilton John O'Bryan July 18 , 2008 ( 2008 - 07 - 18 ) 317 4.53 Sokka discovers that the Ember Island Players , a Fire Nation theater group , is debuting a play based upon their adventures . The play turns out to be Fire Nation propaganda , and although the audience enjoys the play , Aang and his friends are embarrassed by the inaccurate and exaggerated portrayals of themselves ( with the sole exception of Toph , who is amused by her depiction as a large muscled man who employs a primitive form of sonar by yelling at everything ) . In context , the play also serves as a concise summary of Aang 's entire journey throughout the show . The play ends with the Fire Nation winning the war , Azula killing Zuko and the Fire Lord killing the Avatar , which triggers a standing ovation from the audience and clearly frightens Aang . 58 18 `` Sozin 's Comet , Part 1 : The Phoenix King '' JM Animation Ethan Spaulding Michael Dante DiMartino July 19 , 2008 ( 2008 - 07 - 19 ) 318 5.59 Aang has decided to fight the Fire - lord after Sozin 's Comet passes . Zuko derails this plan by revealing that Ozai intends to raze the entire Earth - Kingdom continent while under its influence . The gang begins a frantic training regimen while Aang struggles with his responsibilities : his friends exhort him to simply kill Ozai , but Aang clings to the pacifist beliefs of his Air - Nomad heritage . In his sleep , Aang is drawn towards a mysterious island that appears suddenly in the sea ; the next day , his friends find June the Bounty Hunter to attempt to locate him again . Ozai bequeaths his throne to Azula and declares himself `` Phoenix King '' , ruler of the known world while Aang awakens on the unknown island now in the middle of the sea . 59 19 `` Sozin 's Comet , Part 2 : The Old Masters '' Moi Animation Giancarlo Volpe Aaron Ehasz July 19 , 2008 ( 2008 - 07 - 19 ) 319 5.59 On the island , Aang seeks guidance from his past lives , but they too insist he must take violent action against the Firelord . The island turns out to be a giant lion - turtle , which gives Aang the guidance he has been seeking . After June is unable to find Aang , Zuko decides to ask June to find his uncle instead . After June leads them to the outer wall of Ba Sing Se , they meet King Bumi , Jeong Jeong , Master Pakku , and Master Piandao , who are members of the Order of the White Lotus . The group soon finds out that Iroh is their leader . After reuniting with Iroh , the team decides to split up and go in different directions to help stop the Fire Nation : Zuko and Katara will handle Azula at the capital of the Fire Nation ; Sokka , Suki and Toph will attempt to deflect the Fire Nation airships encroaching on the Earth Kingdom , and Iroh is to lead the Order in the liberation of Ba Sing Se . Sozin 's Comet arrives and Phoenix King Ozai prepares to destroy both the Earth Kingdom and the Avatar . 60 20 `` Sozin 's Comet , Part 3 : Into the Inferno '' JM Animation Joaquim Dos Santos Michael Dante DiMartino Bryan Konietzko July 19 , 2008 ( 2008 - 07 - 19 ) 320 5.59 Azula 's mental stability , undermined by the betrayal of her childhood friends at the Boiling Rock , begins to deteriorate as her coronation as Fire lord approaches . Zuko and Katara confront her right when she is about to be crowned Firelord , but Azula challenges her brother to an Agni Kai . Zuko , although initially winning , is gravely injured when Azula throws lightning at Katara which he dives in the way of . Aang duels Ozai without result , still unwilling to kill him . Sokka , Toph , and Suki attempt to halt the Airship fleet but are soon separated , while the Order of the White Lotus battles for Ba Sing Se 's freedom . 61 21 `` Sozin 's Comet , Part 4 : Avatar Aang '' JM Animation Joaquim Dos Santos Michael Dante DiMartino Bryan Konietzko July 19 , 2008 ( 2008 - 07 - 19 ) 321 5.59 Ozai accidentally causes Aang to enter the mighty Avatar State . The Order of the White Lotus successfully liberates Ba Sing Se , while Sokka , Suki and Toph disable all of the Airships . Katara freezes and chains Azula down , triggering a psychotic breakdown in Azula , then uses her exceptionally strong healing abilities to revive a severely wounded Zuko . Aang easily overwhelms Ozai , yet still refuses to kill him . Aang uses his knowledge from the lion - turtle - a newly acquired bending ability called energybending - to permanently strip Ozai of his firebending abilities , defeating the Phoenix King without taking his life . Newly appointed Fire Lord Zuko declares the war over , and Aang and his friends celebrate together at Iroh 's tea shop in Ba Sing Se . Zuko and Mai reconcile officially , and Zuko confronts his father , angrily asking where his mother , Ursa , is being kept . Aang and Katara share a loving hug and kiss passionately before the sunset . Note : The series is directly followed by The Promise , The Search , The Rift , Smoke and Shadow and North and South comic trilogies . This series is followed by The Legend of Korra .