A major characteristic of American schools is the high priority given to sports , clubs and activities by the community , the parents , the schools and the students themselves . Extracurricular activities are educational activities not falling within the scope of the regular curriculum but under the supervision of the school . Extracurriculars at the high school age ( 15 - 18 ) , this can be anything that does n't require a high school credit or paid employment , but simply done out of pleasure or to also look good on a college transcript . Extracurricular activates for all ages can be categorized under clubs , art , culture and language , community , leadership , government , media , military , music , performing arts , religion , role play / fantasy , speech , sports , technology , and volunteer , all of which take place outside of school hours . These sorts of activities are put in place as other forms of teamwork , time management , goal setting , self - discovery , building self - esteem , relationship building , finding interests , and academics . These extracurricular activities and clubs can be sponsored by fund raising , or by the donation of parents who give towards the program in order for it to keep running . Students and Parents are also obligated to spend money on whatever supplies are necessary for this activity that are not provided for the school ( sporting equipment , sporting attire , costumes , food , instruments ) These activities can extend to large amounts of time outside the normal school day ; home - schooled students , however , are not normally allowed to participate . Student participation in sports programs , drill teams , bands , and spirit groups can amount to hours of practices and performances . Most states have organizations that develop rules for competition between groups . These organizations are usually forced to implement time limits on hours practiced as a prerequisite for participation . Many schools also have non-varsity sports teams ; however , these are usually afforded fewer resources and less attention .