Russell Crowe as Maximus Decimus Meridius : a Hispano - Roman legatus forced into becoming a slave who seeks revenge against Commodus . He has earned the favor of Marcus Aurelius , and the love and admiration of Lucilla prior to the events of the film . His home is near Trujillo in today 's Province of Cáceres , Spain . After the murder of his family he vows vengeance . Maximus is a fictional character partly inspired by Marcus Nonius Macrinus , Narcissus , Cincinnatus , and Maximus of Hispania . Mel Gibson was first offered the role , but declined as he felt he was too old to play the character . Antonio Banderas and Hugh Jackman were also considered . Joaquin Phoenix as Commodus : The amoral , power - hungry , twisted son of Marcus Aurelius , he murders his father when he learns that Maximus will hold the emperor 's powers in trust until a new republic can be formed . Connie Nielsen as Lucilla : Maximus 's former lover and the older child of Marcus Aurelius . Lucilla has been recently widowed . She resists her brother 's incestuous advances and hates him , while also having to be careful to protect her son , Lucius , from her brother 's corruption and wrath . Oliver Reed as Antonius Proximo : An old , gruff gladiator trainer who buys Maximus in North Africa . A former gladiator himself , he was freed by Marcus Aurelius , and gives Maximus his own armor and eventually a chance at freedom , and becomes somewhat of a mentor to Maximus . This was Reed 's final film appearance , before he died during the filming . In the original film script , Proximo was supposed to live . Derek Jacobi as Senator Gracchus : A member of the Roman Senate who opposes Commodus 's rule and an ally of Lucilla and Maximus . Djimon Hounsou as Juba : A Numidian tribesman who was taken from his home and family by slave traders . He becomes Maximus 's closest ally and friend , and inspires Maximus to bring down Commodus for the greater good before he joins his family in the afterlife . Richard Harris as Marcus Aurelius : The old and wise emperor of Rome who appoints Maximus , whom he loves as a son , to be his successor , with the ultimate aim of returning Rome to a republican form of government . He is murdered by his son Commodus before his wish can be fulfilled . Ralf Möller as Hagen : A Germanic warrior and Proximo 's chief gladiator who later befriends Maximus and Juba during their battles in Rome . Tommy Flanagan as Cicero : Maximus 's loyal servant who provides liaison between the enslaved Maximus , his former legion based at Ostia , and Lucilla . He is used as bait for the escaping Maximus and eventually killed by the Praetorian Guard . David Schofield as Senator Falco : A Patrician , a senator opposed to Gracchus . He helps Commodus to consolidate his power . John Shrapnel as Senator Gaius : Another Roman senator allied with Gracchus , Lucilla , and Maximus against Commodus . Tomas Arana as General Quintus : another Roman legatus , who served under and was a friend to Maximus . Made commander of the Praetorian Guard by Commodus , after betraying Maximus . In the extended version , Quintus sees the mad side of the Emperor when he is forced to execute two innocent men . Quintus later redeems himself by refusing to allow Commodus a second sword during the latter 's duel with Maximus , and promises to honor Maximus 's last wishes . Spencer Treat Clark as Lucius Verus : The young son of Lucilla . He is named after his father Lucius Verus . He is also the grandson of Marcus Aurelius . David Hemmings as Cassius : the master of ceremonies for the gladiatorial games in the Colosseum . Sven - Ole Thorsen as Tigris of Gaul : An undefeated champion gladiator who is called out of retirement by Commodus to kill Maximus but is defeated by Maximus . Commodus then ordered Maximus to kill Tigris , but Maximus spared him . Omid Djalili as a slave trader . Giannina Facio as Maximus 's wife . Giorgio Cantarini as Maximus 's son , who is the same age as Lucilla 's son Lucius .