`` Jaqen H'ghar '' ( season 2 , 5 -- 6 ) portrayed by Tom Wlaschiha . Sly , enigmatic , and a dangerous criminal , Jaqen is part of Yoren 's group of recruits taken from King 's Landing to join the Night 's Watch . A foreigner from Braavos , though he originally claims Lorath , he speaks in third person , referring to himself as `` A man '' . On the journey , he meets Arya Stark . When the group is attacked by Lannister bannermen , Arya frees him and two other prisoners , saving them from a fire . He finds Arya again at Harrenhal , where he has since disguised himself as a Lannister guard . He asks her to name three people for him to kill to repay the three deaths she stole from the Many - Faced God , but he refuses to help her in any other way . She chooses two of her enemies , the Tickler , the torturer of Harrenhal , and Ser Amory Lorch , the man who killed Yoren and tried to expose her to Tywin Lannister , and chooses Jaqen himself as the third . Arya `` unnames '' him after he agrees to help her escape . After the break - out , he gives Arya an iron coin , instructing her to give it to any Braavosi and say `` Valar Morghulis '' ( `` All Men Must Die '' in High Valyrian ) should she need more help . He then magically changes his appearance , assumes a new identity , and departs . He and Arya are reunited when she arrives at the House of Black and White in Braavos and he begins training her to become a Faceless Man , though the task proves difficult since Arya is still too attached to her past as a Stark . Jaqen later tasks her with assassinating a fraudulent insurance broker , but she reneges on her mission and instead steals one of the masks to murder Meryn Trant , the Kingsguard who killed Syrio Forel , Arya 's first mentor . In retribution , Jaqen confronts Arya and condemns her to lose her eyesight . In the sixth season , Jaqen brings Arya back to the House of Black and White and eventually returns her sight . He orders her to assassinate Lady Crane , and reluctantly orders her death when Arya botches the assassination , but is impressed upon learning that Arya killed the Waif instead . Though he tells her she is now `` No One '' , she asserts her identity as Arya Stark and leaves Braavos .