Fairy Tale Counterpart Real World Counterpart Portrayer Guest Status Bishop N / A Tom Pickett 1 , 4 Alive The Bishop is an unnamed man who performs marriage rituals in the Enchanted Forest . After Prince Charming proposes to Snow While , the Bishop officiates their wedding at a chapel at the Royal Castle . During the ceremony , he is interrupted by the Evil Queen , who threatens him and everyone present , about a curse that she plans to enact that will take away their happiness . Years later , after Issac rewrites the Once Upon a Time book , the Bishop is sent to the Alternate World . There , he officiates Robin Hood and Zelena 's wedding . Once Henry undoes Isaac 's damage , the Bishop is sent back to his original home . N / A Ryan Marlow Warren Christie Unknown Ryan Marlow is a man on the run from the law . Living in Boston , Ryan goes on a date with Emma Swan , who is a bounty hunter . Halfway through the date , Emma reveals that she was hired by his wife to track him down after fleeing . Horrified , Ryan escapes the restaurant to his car to escape jail time , but finds his car tire booted . When Emma approaches him to take him in , he sarcastically remarks her orphaned self , forcing Emma to slam his head on the steering wheel . Blind Witch Miss Ginger Patti Allan Alive The Blind Witch is a witch with stitched eyes and is one of the darkest souls in the Enchanted Forest . After receiving an invitation by the Evil Queen to participate in the enactment of the Dark Curse , the Blind Witch joins various others with dark souls . As each had to sacrifice a piece of themselves , the Blind Witch cuts off a lock of her hair . However , the first enactment fails , displeasing her and various others . Eventually , the Evil Queen casts the curse and she , along with the rest of the Enchanted Forest , is consumed by the curse and is sent to the Land Without Magic . In Storybrooke , she is Miss Ginger , a bespectacled busybody that is always lurking around whenever there 's trouble . After Regina undoes her curse , she is sent back to the Enchanted Forest . Gnome N / A Layton Keely Transformed The Gnome is one of the darkest souls in the Enchanted Forest . After receiving an invitation from the Evil Queen , the Gnome meets up with other dark souls of the Enchanted Forest in preparation for the casting of the Dark Curse . The Evil Queen threatens them to sacrifice a lock of hair to enact the curse which she then uses to enact the curse . The casting fails , promoting the Gnome to laugh at the Evil Queen . Angered , she petrified him . When the Dark Curse is properly cast , the Gnome , in petrified form , is sent to the Land Without Magic . In Storybrooke , the Gnome appears as a garden gnome at Regina 's home . Later on , when Regina is forced to reverse her curse , all of Storybrooke , including the petrified Gnome is sent back to their respective worlds . Ella Ashley Boyd Jessy Schram 1 , W , 4 , 6 Alive Jessy Schram Ella is the stepdaughter of Lady Tremaine , stepsister to Clorinda and Tisbe , wife of Prince Thomas , and mother of Alexandra . Living as a maid at Tremaine estate , she wishes to attend the royal ball at the King 's castle but her dress is destroyed under the orders of Lady Tremaine . She meets Rumplestiltskin after he kills her fairy godmother and offers her a contract - her wish in exchange for something she will have in the future . She signs without reading the contract and attends the ball where she meets Prince Thomas . The two falls in love and marries . However , Rumplestiltskin later reminds Ella of the contract and informs her that he wants her first - born child . When she discovers she is pregnant , she attempts to run away . However , Thomas and Prince Charming devise a plan to capture Rumplestiltskin . The plan succeeds , but Thomas disappears . Rumplestiltskin vows that she will never see Thomas again until the contract is fulfilled . After the Dark Curse is cast , Ella is sent to the Land Without Magic . In Storybrooke , she is Ashley Boyd , a single , nineteen year old , pregnant maid . The baby 's father Sean Herman is forbidden to see Ashley by his father Mitchell , leading to Mitchell arranging for Mr. Gold to pay Ashley in exchange for the baby . She originally agrees to the exchange , but later decides to keep her child . She attempts to flee town but goes into labor at the city limits . Emma Swan brings her to the hospital , where she gives birth to a daughter and reunites with Sean . Emma agrees to be in - debt to Mr. Gold if Ashley is allowed to keep the baby . Ashley and Sean are later engaged . After Regina undoes her curse , Ashley goes back to the Enchanted Forest , but returns following a new curse . Ashley begins teaching parenting classes in Storybrooke at her day care . She later reunites with Clorinda and is nearly killed by Lady Tremaine . Emma managed to heal Ashley , who is then reunited with Sean . Lady Tremaine N / A Lisa Banes 1 , 6 Alive Lady Tremaine is the mother of Clorinda and Tisbe , and stepmother of Ella . After the death of her second husband , Lady Tremaine ends up with his daughter , Ella . One day , the footman from a nearby kingdom arrives at her estate , inviting her and her family to a royal ball held at the King 's castle . On the night of the ball , she takes her daughters , Clorinda and Tisbe , and leaves Ella to do chores at her estate . When Ella shows up at the ball , she mocks her , telling her that the Prince will never choose her , despite him dancing with her . Later , after finding out that the Prince is falling for Ella , she breaks Ella 's glass slipper , the only proof of being the women that the Prince danced with at the ball . She later tries to prevent Clorinda from marrying Jacob , the footman . Instead , she opens a portal to the Land of Untold Stories and banishes her daughter , along with herself there . When Mr. Hyde brings the inhabitants from the Land of Untold Stories to Storybrooke , Lady Tremaine is among the inhabitants . Duping Clorinda into helping her , Lady Tremaine tries to enact revenge on Ella , now known as Ashley , at Jacob 's pumpkin farm . After Lady Tremaine threatens to kill Clorinda 's lover , Jacob , Clorinda tries to stop her . Instead , Lady Tremaine stabs Ella . Eventually , she is arrested and sentenced to do community service under Storybrooke 's law . Clorinda N / A Mekenna Melvin 1 , 6 Alive Mekenna Melvin Clorinda is the daughter of Lady Tremaine , sister of Tisbe , and stepsister of Ella . In the Enchanted Forest , Clorinda is engaged to Prince Thomas ' footman Jacob , but is too scared to tell her mother , and tells Ella instead . With help from Ella , Clorinda and Jacob plans to go to the Land of Untold Stories , but are prevented by Lady Tremaine . Clorinda is then forced to go to the Land of Untold Stories with her mother . Years later , arriving in Storybrooke from the Land of Untold Stories , Clorinda is duped into helping her mother get revenge on Ella , now going by the name of Ashely . During a confrontation at a pumpkin farm run by Jacob , Lady Tremaine injures Ashely . With the intervention of Emma , Henry , and Hook , Clorinda is happily reunited with Ashely and Jacob . Tisbe N / A Goldie Hoffman 1 , 6 Unknown Tisbe is the daughter of Lady Tremaine , sister of Clorinda , and stepsister of Ella . After receiving an invitation to a royal ball , her mother instructs her and her sister Clorinda to dress proper to meet the Prince . When Ella voices her interest to attend the ball too , Tisbe and her family destroys Ella 's dress and abandons her for the ball at the King 's castle . There , she meets and falls for a duke . When her mother and sister goes to the Land of Untold Stories , Tisbe remains in the Enchanted Forest . Fairy Godmother N / A Catherine Lough Haggquist Deceased The Fairy Godmother is a fairy . While being a fairy , the Fairy Godmother also works as a patron to King George and his family . For unknown reasons , Rumplestiltskin seeks her whereabouts and gains knowledge of it from King George . When Ella is left behind by her stepfamily for a royal ball at the King 's castle , the Fairy Godmother appears to help her out . The Fairy Godmother intends to transform Ella into a princess for the ball . Before she could do it , Rumplestiltskin kills her and takes her wand . Prince Thomas Sean Herman Tim Phillipps 1 , 6 Alive Prince Thomas is the husband of Ella , and father of Alexandra . Prince Thomas meets Ella at his father 's ball after she makes a deal with Rumplestiltskin . After Ella thinks he loves Clorinda , she leaves the ball , leaving behind her glass slipper . He then searches the entire kingdom for her with Snow White 's help . They eventually find her and he proposals to her and they marry . During their wedding reception , Rumplestiltskin informs Ella that he owes her her first - born child in exchange for her lavish life . Thomas comforts a frightened Ella , devising a plan with Prince Charming to capture Rumplestiltskin . The plan succeeds , but Thomas disappears , with Rumplestiltskin vowing that she will never see Thomas again until the contract is fulfilled . After the Evil Queen cast the Dark Curse , Thomas is sent to the Land Without Magic . In Storybrooke , he is Sean Herman , a cannery worker who is forced by his father Mitchell to leave Ashley after she falls pregnant . Sean eventually decides to go against his father 's wishes and visits Ashley to reconcile with her and to see his new - born daughter . A few months later , he proposes to Ashley and the pair are engaged . Eventually , he is send back to the Enchanted Forest after Regina undoes her curse , but returns after a new curse is cast . He also reunites with Ashley 's stepsister Clorinda after she comes from the Land of Untold Stories , and his footman Jacob . King Mitchell Herman Ted Whittall Alive The King is the father of Prince Thomas , father - in - law of Ella , grandfather of Alexandra , and a ruler of an unnamed kingdom in the Enchanted Forest . The King holds a royal ball at his castle for his son , Prince Thomas , to find a possible suitor . Eventually , his son chooses Ella , and the King gives his blessing to the happy couple , and later is expected to become a grandfather . However , this is halted when the Evil Queen cast the Dark Curse that sends the King to the Land Without Magic . In Storybrooke , he is Mitchell Herman , father of Sean . He disapproves Sean of having contact with Ashley after he gets her pregnant . He makes a deal with Mr. Gold to take Ashley 's child to lessen the girl 's burden , but eventually , the deal is not fulfied . After the curse breaks , he is reunited with his loved ones and is eventually sent back to the Enchanted Forest after Regina reversed her curse . Martin N / A Harry Groener Unknown Harry Groener Martin is Myrna 's wife , and Jiminy 's father . Martin works as a con artist alongside his wife and son to make a living . They occasionally get involved in various schemes around the Enchanted Forest and believes that Jiminy would take over the family business once he 's an adult . Martin later learns about his son 's disapproval of their way of living when Jiminy tried to poison him and Myrna from a deal with Rumplestiltskin . He switches the poison with a couple and happily confronts Jiminy about the switch , which turned the couple into puppets . Myrna N / A Carolyn Hennesy Unknown Carolyn Hennesy Myrna is Martin 's husband , and Jiminy 's mother . Working as con artists with Martin and her son , they are involved in various schemes around the Enchanted Forest . Myrna occasionally wants Jiminy to involve himself in their crimes as he is to take over the family business when he 's older , despite not wanting to . Hoping for an out , Jiminy makes a deal with Rumplestiltskin for a poison , but Myrna and Martin finds out and switches the poison with another family , with ended up turning the unfortunate couple into puppets . Prince James N / A Josh Dallas ( adult ) Luke Roessler ( child ) 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 Deceased Josh Dallas Prince James is son of Robert and Ruth , the twin brother of David , and stepson of King George . After James and David were born , in order save their farm , Robert and Ruth makes a deal with Rumplestiltskin to give up James to King George . Afterwards , James , being unhappy with his life , runs away to Pleasure Island but is found by Robert who wants to bring him home but they are both stopped by King George who offers Robert gold to give James back but Robert refuses . King George orders for him to be executed and James is taken back home . Years later , King George 's kingdom struggles financially , prompting James and his lover Jacqueline into tricking Anton , a giant , by stealing treasure from his beanstalk home . He later competes in a battle which ends in a mutual kill , causing King George to use his twin brother David to pose as him in order to save the kingdom . Mary Margaret later encounters Prince James in the Underworld where he is operating as sheriff and is envious of David , who was chosen over James to be raised by their parents . While in the Underworld , James has a romantic relationship with Cruella De Vil . In order to ruin David 's life , James assumes David 's identity in order to help Cruella obtain Zelena 's baby . When he and Cruella have Emma Swan and Robin Hood at the Underbrooke Harbor , David arrives upon escaping his cell where he fights James who states that his unfinished business is to kill David . Before James can kill David , he gets knocked into Underbrooke Harbor by David ending up in the River of Lost Souls . Although David commented about how his brother did n't deserve that , Emma states that some people are n't meant to move on . Ruth N / A Gabrielle Rose 1 , 2 , 4 , 6 Deceased Gabrielle Rose Ruth is wife of Robert , and mother of twin brothers Prince James and David . When she and Robert are about to lose their farm they make a deal with Rumplestiltskin and give up their son James . She later loses Robert when he died and is told his death was caused by an accidental overdose . Later on she and David continue to live on the farm but are tormented by a warlord named Bo Peep who brands them if they do n't give her their weekly pay but they are freed from her when David gains the strength and bravery from a girl named Anna . When James is killed in battle , Ruth tries to convince her second son , David , to marry King Midas ' daughter in order to save their farm . She tells David of James whom he originally had no knowledge of , informing him that she gave him away as an heir to King George to keep their farm . Later on , Ruth gives David her wedding ring to pass on to his true love , Snow White . Ruth is later shot by a poisoned arrow from King George 's knights when David arranges to meet his mother . David , Snow and Lancelot attempt to cure her with the water of Lake Nostos , but unbeknownst to them , she instead gives Snow the healing water to make her fertile again following King George 's potion . As her dying wish , Ruth witnesses Snow marry her son , before passing away . King Midas N / A Alex Zahara 1 , 3 Unknown Alex Zahara King Midas is the father of Princess Abigail . Possessing powers to turn all he touches to gold , he had one hand cut off and has a special glove over his other hand to hold back the Golden Touch . Due to this , he accidentally transforms his daughter 's true love , Fredrick , into a statue whilst protecting him . After a dragon terrorizes King Midas ' kingdom , he enlists King George 's son James to kill the creature . After James is killed , his twin brother David takes his place , slaughtering the dragon , leading King Midas to offer David his daughter 's hand in marriage . However , Abigail chooses to marry Frederick , who is turned back into human , for love while David weds Snow White . Siren N / A Aria Pullman 1 , 2 Deceased Aria Pullman The Siren is the guardian of Lake Nostos . When Prince Charming tries to free Frederick from his golden statue state , he comes to Lake Nostos to retrieve its waters . This awakens the Siren who attacks Charming for trying to steal her waters without permission . Charming and the Siren fights off , and she dies in the hands of Charming . Her waters his then used to free Frederick . Following her death , Lake Nostos dries up . Years later , Cora and Captain Hook comes to Lake Nostos and finds the remains of the Siren , with a dried up lake . However , with Cora 's interruption , she restores Lake Nostos 's magical waters despite the Siren remaining dead . Hansel Nicholas Zimmer Quinn Lord Alive Hansel is the son of the Woodcutter , and brother of Gretel . After the Evil Queen captures his father , he and Gretel work for the Evil Queen to obtain a special apple from the Blind Witch in her gingerbread house . However , he and his sister is warned to not eat anything in the Blind Witch 's house . After breaking in , Hansel does not heed the Evil Queen 's warning and eats a cupcake , waking the Blind Witch who plans to cook and eat them . However , Hansel and his sister turn the tables on the Blind Witch by locking her in the oven . Afterwards , the Evil Queen offers them a place to stay in her palace for a job well done , but Hansel and his sister refuses , wishing to be with their father . Angered at their decision , the Evil Queen banishes them both to the Infinite Forest . Eventually , the Dark Curse is cast and Hansel is sent to the Land Without Magic . In Storybrooke , he is Nicholas Zimmer , who have never met his father and live on their own since their mother died . In order to avoid him from being separated from his sister by social services , Emma finds their father and persuades him to take care of them . Gretel Ava Zimmer Karley Scott Collins Alive Gretel is the daughter of the Woodcutter , and sister of Hansel . After the Evil Queen Regina captures their father in the forest , they are forced to retrieve a small black sack ( something precious ) for her from the Blind Witch . After they succeed , the Queen invites them to live with her in her palace but they refuse , stating they want to be reunited with their father . She reacts to this by transporting them to the infinite forest . Their father is then brought to the Queen and released , without knowing where his children are located . In Storybrooke , they are siblings Ava Zimmer , who have never met their father and live on their own since their mother died . In order to avoid them being separated by social services , Emma finds their father and convinces him to take care of them . Woodcutter Michael Tillman Nicholas Lea Alive The Woodcutter is Hansel and Gretel 's father . While in the woods of the Enchanted Forest , he is captured by the Evil Queen 's guards . After banishing Hansel and Gretel to the Infinite Forest for refusing to live with her , the Evil Queen releases him , while telling him that he and his children can live together as a family , once they find one another . In Storybrooke , he is a mechanic named Michael Tillman who is the owner of Marine Garage . He is the father of Nicholas and Ava ( Hansel and Gretel ) whom he is n't aware of until Sheriff Emma Swan informs him . At first , he refuses to take them in because he fears that he would not be able to support them . Later , when Emma is forced to take them to social services in Boston , she pretends that her car breaks down and calls him . When he arrives to tow her car , she tells him to at least see them before making a decision , he chooses to take them in . Zoso N / A Brad Dourif 1 , 4 , 5 Deceased Brad Dourif Zoso is an unmatched sorcerer who was the Dark One before Rumplestiltskin . Zoso is a slave to the Duke , who wields the Dark One 's dagger which enables anyone who possesses it to control them , that resided in the frontlands . Seeking freedom from the Duke , Zoso manipulates Rumplestiltskin while in the form of a beggar by telling him to burn down the Duke 's castle and steal the Dark One 's dagger . After the objectives are filled , Rumplestiltskin stabs him with the dagger , killing him , which allows Rumplestiltskin to become the new Dark One . Years later , Zoso is temporarily resurrected from the Underworld by Hook and joins the other former Dark Ones in Storybrooke , seeking to exchange their life by branding others . Eventually , he and the others , are sucked into the Dark One 's dagger , whisking them from existence . King Leopold N / A Richard Schiff Eric Lange ( young adult ) 1 , 2 , 3 Deceased Richard Schiff King Leopold is the husband of Queen Eva. , father of Snow While , and later , after Queen Eva 's death , husband to Regina . As a Prince , Leopold meets Cora after she is betrayed by Jonathan , a man claiming to be a Prince . The two form a strong bond until Cora learns he is engaged to Princess Eva , who informs Leopold of her secret child , leading him to remove Cora from his kingdom . Becoming King , he marries Eva and the two have a daughter named Snow White , though Eva later dies after being poisoned by Cora . The latter later sets up her daughter Regina to marry King Leopold by getting Regina to save Snow 's life . Upon finding the Genie 's lamp , he can not think of anything he desires , so instead frees the Genie and invites him to his castle to work with him . These actions end in disaster when the Genie falls in love with Regina and plots to kill the King to free her from the loveless marriage . The Genie places poisonous vipers from Agrabah in the King 's bed , killing him . Sir Maurice Moe French Eric Keenleyside 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 Alive Eric Keenleyside Sir Maurice is the husband of Colette , and father of Belle . He once introduces Belle to Gaston at the time when the Ogre Wars were starting . During one of the Ogre attacks , Maurice lost Colette to the invading Ogres . He later enlists Rumplestiltskin to save his people from the Ogre Wars . He agrees on the condition that Belle must leave her family and become the caretaker of his estate . Maurice declines , but Belle agrees to the bargain . Years later , the Evil Queen casts the Dark Curse that sends Maurice to the Land Without Magic . In Storybrooke , he is Moe French , a florist . Mr. Gold ( Rumplestiltskin ) repossesses the shop 's van , leading to Moe robbing his house and being beaten viciously . After the curse is broken , Moe begins to search for Belle , hiring Mr. William Smee to locate her . Initially they are reunited , but when Moe learns that Belle still has feelings for Rumplestiltskin , he tries to send her across town lines in order to have her forget him . After Gold rescues Belle , she tells both him and her father that she wishes to never see them again . Belle and Moe later reconcile and Moe gives his blessing for Belle to marry Mr. Gold . After returning from the Underworld , Mr. Gold pays him a visit and Moe is displeased to see him again . Moe is asked to wake Belle up from her sleeping curse , but refuses to wake her until Gold is gone . Gaston N / A Sage Brocklebank ( first appearance ) Wes Brown 1 , 5 Deceased Gaston is Belle 's betrothed . Hoping to reunite their kingdoms , Sir Maurice wants Belle to marry Gaston . As Belle is reluctant to marry him , Gaston decides to spend time with her . On a walk in the forest , they find a young ogre trapped in an underground hole . Without Belle 's knowledge , Gaston tortures the ogre . When Belle uses an enchanted mirror to disclose the culprit , Gaston is revealed . Despite this , Sir Maurice still persuades to give Gaston a second chance . Sometime later , Gaston becomes Belle 's fiancé . During the ogre raid , Belle is given to Rumplestiltskin in exchange for the kingdom 's safety . Gaston later goes to Rumplestiltskin 's castle to save her , but is turned into a rose . Unknown to her , Belle cuts the rose 's stem to place it in a vase , killing him . His soul is then sent to the Underworld . In the Underworld , Gaston works at the Underbrooke Pet Shelter . Hades approaches him with a deal to get his revenge on Mr. Gold . Hades gives him arrows that were dipped into the River of Lost Souls . Anyone who is hit by the arrows ends up in the River of Lost Souls . Belle figures out that she is the unfinished business that Gaston has . Near the Underbrooke Harbor which the River of Lost Souls flows through , Mr. Gold has Gaston in a stranglehold until Belle arrives . Belle uses the Dark One 's Dagger to have him release Gaston . When Gaston starts to attack Mr. Gold , Belle accidentally knocks Gaston into the Underbrooke Harbor causing him to end up in the River of Lost Souls . Chief Mop Patient Peter Marcin 1 , 4 , 5 , 6 Alive The Chief is a character of unknown origin . The Chief resides in an unknown realm . When the Evil Queen casts the Dark Curse in the Enchanted Forest , somehow , the Chief gets swept by the curse , along with various inhabitants of the Enchanted Forest . The curse sends the Chief to the Land Without Magic . In Storybrooke , the Chief is known as a Mop Patient in Storybrooke 's Mental Facility , located under Storybrooke 's General Hospital . Locked in a wad at one of the corridors , he is always seen mopping the hallway . After the curse is broken , he regains his memories as the Chief , but maintains as a patient in the facility . After the curse is reversed , the Chief is returned to him homeland , but returned to Storybrooke after another curse is cast , ending up back in the facility . Jefferson / Mad Hatter N / A Sebastian Stan 1 , 2 Alive Sebastian Stan Jefferson is a man who owns a magical hat that can be used to travel between worlds . He is also the husband of Priscilla and father to Grace . In the Enchanted Forest , when he first meets Regina , Rumplestiltskin has Jefferson bring Dr. Frankenstein to the Enchanted Forest to pretend failing to revive her true love Daniel , in order to make her become evil . In his later life , he lives with his daughter Grace , selling fungus to survive . He initially refuses to help Regina , though later agrees if his daughter will want for nothing . He takes Regina to Wonderland , where she rescues her father Henry and abandons Jefferson , who is beheaded by the knights of the Queen of Hearts . His head is reattached and he is ordered to make another hat to return home . Although he makes thousands of hats , none take him home , leading him into insanity and earning his alias as the Mad Hatter . In Storybrooke , he remembers his pre-cursed life and lives in a large house . He captures Mary Margaret Blanchard and abducts Emma , ordering her to make a hat that will take him home . Emma knocks him out and when he awakens to kill Emma , Mary Margaret pushes him out of a window . He disappears , leaving nothing but his hat . Jefferson returns upon request of Regina to remove Emma , promising a new life with his daughter . He retrieves the apple that cursed Snow White into a deathlike sleep from the Enchanted Forest . However , after Henry is cursed , Regina refuses to reward Jefferson , who later frees Belle from her cell and instructs her to tell Mr. Gold that Regina held her captive . After the curse is broken , he initially avoids Grace , feeling guilty for unintentionally abandoning her , but they eventually happily reunite . Daniel Colter N / A Noah Bean 1 , 2 Deceased Noah Bean Daniel Colter is the brother of William , and a stable boy . When Regina was a teenager , he gave her riding lessons and was also her secret lover . After Regina saves a young Snow White 's life , King Leopold proposes to her . To avoid the unwanted marriage , Regina devises a plan to run away with Daniel , but Cora kills him upon learning of their relationship from Snow White . After Regina learns basic magic , she uses a preservation spell on Daniel 's body , keeping him in a glass case and dedicating her time to finding a way to bring him back to life . Jefferson brings Dr. Victor Frankenstein to her from his world and he performs an experiment on Daniel 's body , failing . It is later revealed that he failed on purpose as part of a deal with Rumplestiltskin , who wanted Regina to give into her dark side . After the curse in Storybrooke is broken , Dr. Whale wishes for Regina to return him to his world . In order to persuade her , he attempts the experiment on Daniel again , this time succeeding . However , the pain of resurrection turns Daniel into a monster who rips off Whale 's arm . During a brief moment of painful lucidity , Daniel tells Regina to forget their love and love again , before lapsing back into psychotic behavior and attempting to attack her ; a heartbroken Regina turns Daniel to dust . Daniel briefly spends his time in the Underworld before moving on into Mount Olympus . Milah N / A Rachel Shelley 2 , 5 Deceased Milah is the ex-wife of Rumplestiltskin , ex-girlfriend of Captain Hook , and the mother of Baelfire . Sometime during the Ogre Wars , Milah gave birth to Baelfire . She and Rumplestiltskin come to the aid of Baelfire when he gets bitten by an Atlantean Rat Snake . As the cure to the 24 - hour venom owned by Fendrake the Healer is expensive , both of them had to come up with a plan to obtain it . Rumplestiltskin had to make a deal with Fendrake to obtain the cure , they administered it to Baelfire . While at a bar , a drunk threatened Milah until she is saved by Captain Hook . At some point , Rumplestiltskin finds out that Milah has been having an affair with Captain Hook and secretly leaves with Captain Hook on his journey out to sea . Rumplestiltskin thinks that Captain Hook kidnapped her and sets out to find her . Upon becoming the Dark One , Rumplestiltskin catches up to Captain Hook where Milah stated that Captain Hook did n't kidnap her . Milah states that she could n't stay in a loveless marriage with Rumplestiltskin and that she never loved him . This causes an angry Rumplestiltskin to rip out her heart and crush it and kills Milah . In the Underworld , Mr. Gold encounters Milah as a crossing guard and enlists her to help him and Emma rescue Captain Hook from his prison near the River of Lost Souls . While waiting for Emma 's return , she admits to Mr. Gold that her guilt over leaving Baelfire is keeping her in the Underworld and that she regrets treating her son poorly because she hated her husband . Recalling that Baelfire forgave him for betraying him , Mr. Gold offers her hope about their son forgiving her as well . Since she now knows Baelfire is happy and in a better place , she has hopes her unfinished business is done , and that she can move on . Milah is temporarily frozen by Hades so that he can make a deal with Mr. Gold . After the discussion , Mr. Gold was forced to destroy the boat . Then Mr. Gold regrettably sends Milah into the River of Lost Souls all the while feeling remorse . When Emma and Captain Hook arrived , Mr. Gold told them that Hades attacked and sent Milah into the River of Lost Souls . Anton N / A Jorge Garcia Alive Jorge Garcia Anton is a giant . Anton resides in a realm of giants which could only be accessed via a large beanstalk . His brothers Abraham and Arlo referred to him as `` Tiny '' and often mocked his love for knowing more of the outside world . In retaliation , he journeyed down the beanstalk and befriended Prince James and his lover Jacqueline , who gave Anton a piece of mushroom from Wonderland that shrinks him to human size . Jack tells Anton James ' kingdom is on the verge of bankruptcy and needs money . Anton offers to give them treasure from his home , however , they betray him and lead an army to fight against the Giants , causing the death of all his kind except for Anton . He develops a hatred towards humans for what happened to his family . Years later after the Evil Queen 's curse is broken , Emma Swan and Captain Hook journey up the beanstalk to retrieve a magic compass . Anton attacks them , but Emma pleads with him that she needs the compass to get back to her son . He reluctantly gives the compass to Emma , stating that all humans are alike . However , Emma responds by stating that he is wrong to generalize . Back in Storybrooke , Captain Hook reveals that Cora shrunk Anton to bring him to the new land . Regina Mills ( the Evil Queen ) restores his giant size , and he rampages through Storybrooke , attempting to kill David , who he mistakes for James . However , when the magic wears off , he falls into a pit . David rescues him , convincing him to trust them all . Anton reveals to the group that he owns a magic bean and works with the Seven Dwarfs to harvest beans as portals until Regina destroys them during the time when Greg and Tamara have infiltrated Storybrooke . Anton succeeds to produce only one magic bean on the burnt - out fields . As a token of appreciation for her work , Anton gives the magic bean to Ruby which she uses to come back to the Enchanted Forest in order to find any other werewolves . Seer N / A Shannon Lucio Brighid Fleming ( child ) Deceased Shannon Lucio The Seer is first seen as a child and prisoner kept in a cage by the forces of the Duke . Rumplestiltskin is training with the army during the Ogre Wars and is horrified to see a child whose eyes are cut out and embedded into her palms . She informs him that she can see the future , foreseeing his wife Milah giving birth to his child and due to his actions on the battlefield , his son will become fatherless . The Seer then tells him that they are fated to meet again , then vanishes . Years after the predictions come true and he is parted from his son , Rumplestiltskin returns as The Dark One and the now adult Seer gives him the ideas for the evil curse . At the time , he was quite angry since all this happened because he acted without getting all the possible information . Before she dies , she transfers her powers to him telling him the person who will lead him to his son is a young boy . That young boy will be the undoing of The Dark One . However , he is unaware that the boy would later turn out to be his grandson Henry Mills . Queen Eva N / A Rena Sofer Eva Bourne ( young adult ) 2 , 3 Deceased Rena Sofer Queen Eva is the deceased mother of Snow White and the first wife of King Leopold . As a Princess , Eva is spoiled and selfish , forced into an arranged marriage to Prince Leopold , who simultaneously falls in love with Cora . However , Eva learns of Cora 's secret child with Jonathan , a man claiming to be a Prince , and informs Leopold , leading him to remove Cora from his kingdom . She later trips Cora during her visit to King Xavier causing Eva to fly into a `` rage '' . As a changed , mature adult , she teaches her daughter , Snow White , kindness , respect for service , and to avoid dark magic . She unexpectedly falls ill before Snow 's birthday . The Royal Doctor can not heal her , so her servant Johanna informs Snow that she should talk to the Blue Fairy . The fairy offers Snow a magic candle which would save the life of her mother at the cost of another 's life . She refuses the candle which pleases Eva , who eventually dies . Following the Queen 's funeral , the `` Blue Fairy '' is revealed to be Cora in disguise . Over the corpse of Eva , she confesses to poisoning her in order to place Regina on the throne as well as to turn Snow White evil . When Snow White was possessed by Cora 's ghost as part of Regina 's plan to get answers about Zelena , Snow White learned of her mother 's dark past . Dragon N / A Tzi Ma 2 , 5 , 6 Alive Tzi Ma The Dragon is a healer originated from an unknown realm . Sometime ago , the Dragon had a daughter , but due to a mistake , he loses her . He then ends up in the Land Without Magic and starts a healing clinic , healing uncured diseases using magic he brought from his land . While being a healer , the Dragon also took some interest in the Author , mainly researching about him . Later on , he is visited by Tamara who is on the hunt for magical creatures . When she finds out that the Dragon is magical , she tries to kill him . As he tries to reveal to her his true self , she kills him with a magical taser and his corpse is found by August . A few years later , it is revealed that he survived Tamara 's attack and moved to New York City . Mr. Gold and Regina seeks his help to open a portal to the Land of Untold Stories , but due to the limited magic scope , he fails , but he gives them some words of encouragement . Later at night , he is visited by the Evil Queen who hopes to make a deal with him . As he refused , she traps him in the World Behind the Mirror , but is later freed by Regina in Storybrooke . Sheriff of Nottingham Keith Wil Traval 2 , 4 , 6 Alive Wil Traval The Sheriff of Nottingham is a sheriff and an alcoholic . He originally loved Marian , but loses her love to Robin Hood . Cora later encountered the Sheriff of Nottingham while looking for Robin Hood to please her daughter Regina . Upon being unable to find his location , Cora had the Sheriff of Nottingham pose as Robin , though Regina discovers the ruse and locked him up in one of her dungeons . Cora later teleported him out of the dungeon when confronted by Regina . In Storybrooke , he is Keith , a frequent patron of the Rabbit Hole bar . He meets Lacey and later goes on a date with her . Unaware that Mr. Gold and Lacey is a couple , Keith is beaten by Gold . After Regina undoes her curse , Keith is send back to the Enchanted Forest and is returned by a new curse . Keith is then almost killed by Robin of Locksley , the Wish Realm version , but is saved and send someplace safe by Regina . John Darling Glasses Matt Kane William Ainschough ( child ) 2 , 3 Alive John Darling is the eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. Darling , and brother to Wendy and Michael . As a child , he lives with his sister Wendy and brother Michael . Baelfire saves him and his family from being taken to Neverland by Peter Pan 's Shadow . Later on , he , along with Wendy and Michael goes to Neverland to save Baelfire , but Wendy ends up being captured by Pan . In order to keep her alive , John and Michael does Pan 's bidding . Later , Pan pinned the heart of the truest believer in a child who is yet to be born in the Land Without Magic . Sometime before the Evil Queen 's curse , he sends both John and Michael to the Land Without Magic to retrieve it . Eighteen years later , John and Michael tries to adopt a baby infant who has the heart of the truest believer but failed after Regina decides to keep him after her initial struggle . A few years later , John , under the alias of Glasses , goes to Storybrooke with Michael before Belle casts a cloaking spell around the town which damaged the rear of their car . He and Michael find Belle and Ariel in Mr. Gold 's shop and retrieve Pandora 's Box from them , revealing that they were sent by Peter Pan to prevent the two giving the item to Mr. Gold . Belle and Ariel later stop the pair from destroying the box with a dwarf axe . It is then revealed that the brothers wanted to destroy the object in a deal to save Wendy , who is being held prisoner by Peter Pan in Neverland . Mr. Gold is instructed by Ariel to attempt to save Wendy on his quest to kill Pan . John is later reunited with Wendy after she is rescued from Neverland in Storybrooke , but is send back to his home world after Regina is forced to undo her original curse . Michael Darling Keychain James Immekus Benjamin Cook ( child ) 2 , 3 Alive Michael Darling is the youngest son of Mr. and Mrs. Darling , and brother to Wendy and John . As a child , he lives with his sister Wendy and brother John . Baelfire saves him and his family , from being taken to Neverland by Peter Pan 's Shadow . He later goes to Neverland with Wendy and John to save him , but Wendy ends up being captured by Pan . To keep her alive , he and John does Pan 's bidding . When Pan pins the heart of the truest believer on a child yet to be born , he sends Michael and John to the Land Without Magic to retrieve it before the Queen 's curse . Eighteen years later , Michael and John tries to adopt a baby infant who has the heart of the truest believer but failed after Regina decides to keep him after her initial struggle . A few years later , Michael , under the alias of Keychain , goes to Storybrooke with John before Belle casts a cloaking spell around the town which damaged the rear of their car . He and John find Belle and Ariel in Mr. Gold 's shop and retrieve Pandora 's Box from them , revealing that they were sent by Pan to prevent the two giving the item to Mr. Gold . Belle and Ariel later stop the pair from destroying the box with a dwarf axe . It is then revealed that the brothers wanted to destroy the object in a deal to save Wendy , who is being held prisoner by Peter Pan in Neverland . Mr. Gold is instructed by Ariel to attempt to save Wendy on his quest to kill Pan . Michael reunites with Wendy after she is rescued from Neverland , but is send back to his home world after Regina undoes her original curse . Cheshire Cat N / A Keith David ( voice ) Alive Keith David The Cheshire Cat is a cat who has a history with a younger Alice . When Alice returns to Wonderland , she finds the Cheshire Cat in large form where the Red Queen told him that Alice would be a better food for him . The Cheshire Cat attempts to kill her , though he is fed a piece of mushroom by the Knave of Hearts which shrinks him back to normal size as he flees . Little John N / A Jason Burkart 3 , W , 4 , 5 Alive Little John is a member of the Merry Men . In an attempt to leave Storybrooke , he is turned into a flying monkey . Following Zelena 's defeat , he is returned to his human form . He later returns to the Enchanted Forest to raise Roland in Sherwood Forest with the rest of the Merry Men after Robin Hood 's funeral . Roland N / A Raphael Alejandro 3 , 4 , 5 Alive Roland is the son of Robin Hood and Marian , and half - sister of Robin . He was raised by Robin Hood after the death of his mother . They later end up in Storybrooke , where he becomes close to Regina , his new mother figure . After his father 's death he is later taken back to the Enchanted Forest by Little John and the rest of the Merry Men , to be raised in Sherwood Forest as his father 's successor . Silvermist N / A Jordana Largy Alive Silvermist is a fairy who helps Alice and the Knave of Hearts travel across the river on their search for her true love Cyrus . She is reluctant on helping the Knave as the two have a complicated history . En route across the river , she drops the Knave into the river as he jokingly taunts her about their history . After Alice gets the Mock Turtle to carry them across the river , Silvermist was waiting for them and she and the Knave went their separate ways . Friar Tuck N / A Michael P. Northey W , 3 , 5 Alive Friar Tuck is a member of the Merry Men . Will Scarlet implies that Tuck is usually drunk , even on a Sunday . He later returns to the Enchanted Forest with Little John , Roland and the rest of the Merry Men after Robin Hood 's funeral . Grendel N / A Steve Bacic Deceased Steve Bacic Grendel is a half - beast half - human man who captures Alice and the Knave of Hearts as they approach his home . They are seeking the Forget Me Knot , a magical rope that when placed over an area , will show the viewer the last thing that happened there . They were informed of its location from the Caterpillar . He ties them up as they witness The Grendel talking to a woman in a scene inside the Forget Me Knot . As they escape , they run into a Bandersnatch , a monstrous creature who Alice has battled before . The two successfully kill the beast with the Forget Me Knot and The Grendel thanks them for saving his life . He then reveals to them that The Grendel used the rope to remember his late - wife . He further explains that he stole the rope from the Red Queen . For his crime , she transformed him into the beast . He gives Alice and the Knave the Forget Me Knot as it is useless to him now that the vision of his wife has been over-written . He is later visited by Jafar and the Red Queen who promise to bring back his wife in return for him telling them who killed the Bandersnatch . He agrees , though Jafar tricks him by re-uniting him with his wife ... only through killing him . Liam Jones N / A Bernard Curry 3 , 5 Deceased Liam Jones is the son of Brennan Jones , older brother to Killian Jones , and half - brother to Liam . Liam and Killian are sold into servitude , one ship they served on was owned by Captain Silver . During Captain Silver 's mission to infiltrate the hurricane to obtain a sapphire called the Eye of the Storm , Liam orchestrated a mutiny to save his fellow workers from their doom . While reading the sea maps , Liam is approached by Hades who warns him that his mutiny wo n't work for him while asking for the cargo on the ship in the form of the souls that are on the ship . Hades offers Liam a deal to let the ship sink in exchange for Killian and Liam being spared and the Eye of the Storm being given to him . Liam gives in to Hades ' deal and gives Killian his lucky ring . As part of Hades ' deal , Killian and Liam survived and the sailors with them perished . Upon reaching shore , they are greeted by the soldiers that provide them a ship for them to work on that is in services of the soldiers ' king . With assistance from Killian , he worked for an unknown King where they are sent to Neverland to retrieve a plant called Dreamshade . In Neverland , he gets poisoned by the Dreamshade . With Peter Pan 's help , he and Hook retrieve some magical waters to cure him . Upon returning to the Enchnated Forest , he dies as the cure will only work in Neverland . Emma Swan and Captain Hook later reunited with Liam in the Underworld . He helps them to locate the Underworld 's version of the Once Upon a Time book . After finding the book , he rips pages that contains Hades ' story per deal with Hades . He , along with Hook , later gets kidnapped by Captain Silver and his crew with hopes of sending them both to the Worst Place . The group is interrupted by Hades who then tries to banish Hook to the Worst Place . To protect Hook , Liam persuades Hades to send him instead , which Hades obeys to . However , due to him resolving his unfinished business , a portal to Mount Olympus opens instead . Liam and Captain Silver 's crews leaves the Underworld for Mount Olympus as he bids farewell to Hook . Prince Eric N / A Gil McKinney 3 , 6 Alive Gil McKinney Prince Eric is Ariel 's true love whom he first meets following a shipwreck from which she saves him . A year later , Ariel uses her legs to meet Eric at a ball . He remembers her from his dreams of the wreck , and invites her to travel with him . She later returns to him , only to find that the Evil Queen has stolen her voice , meaning she can not communicate with him . Whilst summoning Ariel in Neverland , Regina ( the Evil Queen ) mentions that Eric was transported to Storybrooke , where she locates Ariel to in order to retrieve an item from Mr. Gold 's shop . Later , Eric is reunited with Ariel ( who is now permanently human thanks to the spell on the special bracelet ) in Storybrooke where she finds him working as a fisherman near the Storybrooke Docks . After Peter Pan enacts his curse , Eric , along with the other inhabitants , are returned to their original worlds . It is later revealed that Eric was kidnapped by the pirate Blackbeard and sent to Hangman 's Island , in a bid to steal the Jolly Roger from Captain Hook . Ariel later finds Eric and the two live together on the island . Ursula / Goddess of the Sea N / A Yvette Nicole Brown ( voice ) Unknown Yvette Nicole Brown Ursula is a famed ancient Goddess of the Sea who is worshiped by mermaids and humans . King Poseidon 's daughter is named after her . In an act of trickery , the Evil Queen impersonates Ursula in order to lure a mermaid , Ariel , with an offer to remain human permanently , but the cost is someone else must take her place . Ariel follows suit by clasping a magical bracelet on a human friend , Snow White , which causes her legs to turn into a mermaid tail . Eventually , Ariel discovers the truth and distracts the Evil Queen so she and Snow White can escape . However , the Evil Queen gets back at Ariel by stealing her voice and later returns to her palace . In one of the mirrors , Ursula makes herself known and plunges out her tentacles to entrap the Evil Queen . Deeply offended at the masquerading ploy , she threatens if it happens again , the Evil Queen will find out exactly how real Ursula is . Anastasia 's Mother N / A Sarah - Jane Redmond Alive Anastasia 's Mother is an unnamed woman who catches her daughter just before she jumps through a looking glass with her lover Will Scarlet . Her mother disapproves of her relationship with him , telling her how she worked hard to make her daughter a royal Queen forbidding Anastasia to leave . Will tells Anastasia that she loves her for who she truly is and she bids farewell to her mother , traveling to Wonderland with Will . Red King N / A Garwin Sanford Deceased The Red King owns a palace somewhere in Wonderland . When Anastasia and Will Scarlet arrive in Wonderland , they decide to attend a royal ball held by the Red King in order to steal bread . The Red King does not recognize Anastasia and when Will is found acting suspiciously , the two are thrown out of the palace . Anastasia forges a plan to return and steal the crown jewels which she noticed while attending the ball . As she begins her part of the heist , she is caught by the Red King . Instead of punishing her , he offers her his hand in marriage insisting that true love will not make her eternally happy . She accepts this deal where she abandons Will and becoming the Red Queen . The Red King disapproves of magic and therefore , he and the Queen of Hearts are enemies . He later becomes disloyal towards the Red Queen and eventually was killed by the Queen of Hearts . Carpenter N / A John Prowse Deceased The Carpenter is a man whom Alice meets upon entering the Black Forest in search of Cyrus . He tells Alice that she should stay in the area to be happy . Plants release vapor into Alice 's face from the trees which make her lose her memory and put her into a positive daze . When the Knave of Hearts comes to rescue Alice , he notices that the Carpenter is attached to a tree , having fully succumbed to the plants ' powers . Upon death , a tombstone for him appears in the Underworld . Millie N / A Kylie Rogers Alive Millie is Alice 's half - sister following her father 's marriage to Millie 's mother Sarah . Unlike her parents , Millie is fond of Alice 's stories . Mr. Darcy N / A Dallas Sauer Alive Mr. Darcy is a young man from Victorian England . After Alice returns from Wonderland , Sarah arranges a date for Alice with Mr. Darcy . Alice , still grief - stricken after losing her true love Cyrus , declines a date with him . Prince Mirza N / A Michael Sangha Daniel Zolghadri ( child ) Deceased Prince Mirza is the son and heir of the Sultan of Lower Agrabah . When Jafar , the Sultan 's bastard son , arrives to live with his father in the palace , he is appointed as the family 's servant boy . Mirza abuses him , which the Sultan approves of , telling Jafar that he will have to make people fear him in order to become a Sultan . Many years later , the Sultan is accosted by a grown - up Jafar in his palace . Jafar threatens to kill him and challenges Mirza to a duel . This results in Mirza fleeing only to be murdered by Jafar 's sorcery . Mrs. Rabbit N / A Whoopi Goldberg ( voice ) Alive Whoopi Goldberg Mrs. Rabbit is the wife of Percy the White Rabbit and mother of his two children . When Alice is injured by swordsmen who attempt to use the Genie to make wishes for them , Cyrus takes Alice to Percy 's home where Mrs. Rabbit tends to her successfully healing her . Mrs. Rabbit and her children are later captured by the Red Queen who uses them as hostages to force Percy to assist in helping her on her mission to make Alice make her wishes to return to the Knave . Years later , the Knave figured out where the Red Queen is holding Mrs. Rabbit and her children and Alice was able to rescue them . Walsh / Wizard of Oz N / A Christopher Gorham Deceased Christopher Gorham Walsh is a failed circus performer from Kansas who found himself in Oz . In Oz , he becomes the Wizard of Oz , a supposedly powerful sorcerer in the land by tricking Glinda . When Zelena requests the truth of her upbringing , she visits the Wizard who gives her a pair of slippers that send Zelena to the Enchanted Forest . Returning with knowledge of how her mother abandoned her in favor of her sister Regina , Zelena learns the truth about the Wizard 's true identity . Zelena transforms Walsh into a flying monkey to serve in her revenge plot against Regina . After Dorothy Gale supposedly defeats Zelena , she poses as the Wizard to send Dorothy back to Kansas using the pair of slippers . In the real world , he appears in his original human form , as the owner of a furniture shop called `` The Wizard of Oak . '' Sent by Zelena to New York City to persuade Emma Swan to stay away from her family in Storybrooke , he becomes her boyfriend . When Emma receives her pre-existing real memories from Hook , she realizes she must return to Storybrooke . When she declines Walsh 's offer of marriage , he appears angered and transforms into his cursed flying monkey form . Emma fights off Walsh after he begins to attack her , pushing him from her apartment roof , unintentionally killing him where he turns to smoke upon hitting the ground . Nyx N / A Leah Gibson Alive Leah Gibson Nyx is the Guardian of the Well of Wonders . Nyx would allow the water to be used on anyone who is worthy of it and curses anyone who misuses it . She cursed Cyrus , Taj , and Rafi by turning them into genies with their lamps being scattered after they took her water to heal their mother Amara . Years later , Alice learns of Cyrus ' curse revolving around the Well of Wonders as they head there to find a way to break the curse . After Alice solves the riddle of which door to take , Cyrus tells Alice to stay behind so that he can atone for his sins . Upon arriving at the Well of Wonders , Nyx emerges as Cyrus asks for Nyx 's mercy and to get his brothers free from Jafar . While Cyrus states that he has learned his lesson , Nyx states that the water was used on his mother and tells Cyrus that she is still alive . Nyx still states that the water should be returned to her as she withdraws back into the Well of Wonders . When Cyrus brings Amara to the Well of Wonders for Amara to surrender herself to Nyx , Jafar interferes and prevents Amara from returning the water to Nyx . When Alice arrives and tries to do the job , Jafar ends up stealing the water from Alice which ended up incurring the wrath of Nyx . Nyx then traps Jafar in a genie bottle and makes it disappear which undoes the changes to the Laws of Magic that Jafar and Amara had done and freeing Will , Taj , and Rafi from the genie curse . Upon foreseeing that the Red Queen will live , Nyx gave Alice and Cyrus some water from the Well of Wonders so that the Red Queen can be resurrected . Rapunzel N / A Alexandra Metz Alive Rapunzel is the daughter of the King and Queen of an unnamed kingdom in the Enchanted Forest and the second child of the family . One day , despite her parents warning , Rapunzel swims in a dangerous stream , resulting in her brother 's death after saving her . Years later , afraid that she will not become a proper Queen like her mother , she digs up a plant called night root to take away her fears , but it has no effect on her . Disappointed , she decides to head home , but is chased by a witch to a tower . The Witch traps her in the tower and refuses to free her . Unbeknownst to her , the Witch is a manifestation of herself as her own greatest fear as a consequence of consuming the night root . Years later , after the Storybrooke inhabitants returns to the Enchanted Forest , Rapunzel shouts for help from atop the tower after noticing a man nearby . The man , Prince Charming , climbs the tower using Rapunzel 's long braided hair and learns the truth about Rapunzel 's imprisonment . Charming fights off the Witch , and finds out that the Witch is a manifestation of Rapunzel 's fear . The Witch climbs onto Rapunzel 's hair to get to her as Charming advises Rapunzel to fend off her fear . Rapunzel promptly does so by cutting off her hair , letting the Witch fall down to her death . Charming than reunites her with her parents . Black Beard N / A Charles Mesure 3 , 4 , 6 Alive Charles Mesure Black Beard is a pirate captain , and enemy of Captain Hook . When Ariel angrily confronts Hook over her missing true love Prince Eric , Hook learns that Blackbeard is responsible . Ariel and Hook confront Blackbeard who states that he will inform them of Eric 's whereabouts in exchange for the Jolly Roger ship and his life . Captain Hook chooses his ship and forces Blackbeard to walk the plank . Ariel however saves him offscreen . Some time later , Anna and Kristoff visit Blackbeard requesting the Wishing Star which was what Anna and Elsa 's parents wanted to rid Elsa of her Ice powers . However , he is revealed to be in allegiance with Anna 's sinister ex-lover Hans and told her that her parents could n't use the Wishing Star because it only could be use by someone with a pure soul . Anna and Kristoff are then placed in a trunk and thrown aboard , though they survive when they are transported to Storybrooke by Anna 's sister Elsa . Returning to Arendelle , Anna and Elsa later cause the Jolly Roger gets trapped inside a bottle while Blackbeard escapes . Captain Hook later encounters Blackbeard and plays him in a poker game where Captain Hook 's victory would enable Blackbeard to grant him a Magic Bean while Blackbeard 's victory would grant him the Jolly Roger . When Blackbeard wins , Captain Hook tells him that the Jolly Roger is in another realm causing Blackbeard to use the Magic Bean to go to Storybrooke . However , the two of them ended up in Neverland where they were chased by the remnants of the Lost Boys . Blackbeard turns against Captain Hook during the chase and steals a boat as he plans to find another way to the Jolly Roger . Captain Hook vows to make Blackbeard pay for his treachery the next time they meet . Dorothy Gale N / A Teri Reeves Matreya Scarrwener ( teenager ) 3 , 5 Alive Dorothy Gale is a young girl from Kansas . She is also the lover of Red Lucas , also known as Ruby . After a cyclone destroys her farmhouse , Dorothy ends up in the Land of Oz . There , she meets Glinda and the Sisterhood of Witches . Fearing that Dorothy would take over her seat as the Witch of the West , Zelena tries to kill her . However , Dorothy splashes a bucket of water over Zelena , causing her to physically melt . She is later sent back home to Kansas with the Silver Slippers by the Wizard of Oz , not knowing at it as Zelena impersonating as him . Back home , her family calls her insane and tries to put her in an asylum , but her Aunt Em prevents them from doing so . Eventually , her aunt gives her Toto -- a pet dog , before dying . She later gets word from the Munchkins that Zelena is still alive . Donning the slippers , she returns to the Land of Oz with Toto and saves the Scarecrow from Zelena , but Zelena eventually rips his brain out . More than twenty - eight years later , Dorothy finds Mulan and Ruby in the Land of Oz . She also clashes with the return of Zelena . When Toto is taken by Zelena , she befriends Mulan and Ruby and schemes a way to get Toto back . She then develops feelings for Ruby and fearing for her safety , Dorothy takes the fight to Zelena alone , resulting in her being placed in a Sleeping Curse . She is later awoken by Ruby with true love 's kiss . Glinda / Good Witch of the South N / A Sunny Mabrey Alive Glinda , better known as the Good Witch of the South is one of the witches of the Land of Oz . As a witch , she rules part of the Land of Oz , mainly the South , alongside with the Witch of the North and Witch of the East . Together , they form the Sisterhood of Witches and protects all of the land from the Heart of Oz , patiently waiting for a replacement witch for the West . One day , Glinda approaches Zelena at Emerald City after Zelena dethrones the Wizard of Oz . Glinda believes that Zelena is the prophesied Witch of the West and invites her to join the Sisterhood of Witches and gives Zelena a pendant to harness her magic . While showing Zelena the West side of the land , they both witness a cyclone and proceeds to the wreckage site , where Glinda finds Dorothy from Kansas . Glinda brings Dorothy to the Heart of Oz , and secretly believes Dorothy is the actual prophesied Witch of the West . Following Zelena 's apparent death in the hands of Dorothy , Glinda pulls through Dorothy 's wish to return home by bringing her to Emerald City to meet the restored Wizard . After Dorothy is sent back , Zelena shows herself as the Wizard and had been masquerading him all along after her apparent death . With Glinda determined to find another witch to defeat Zelena , Zelena banishes Glinda to the Enchanted Forest . Since being banished , Glinda creates a pocket dimension for herself south of the Dark Castle . Years later , she is approached by Prince Charming and Snow White who seeks her knowledge on defeating Zelena . Glinda sadly says that even her magic is n't strong enough to defeat Zelena , and tells them only light magic can defeat the Witch . Wicked Witch of the North N / A Karen Holness Alive The Wicked Witch of the North is one of the witches of the Land of Oz . Originally a good witch , she rules the North region of the Land of Oz and is part of the Sisterhood of Witches . One day , she is introduced to Zelena , the new Witch of the West , appointed by Glinda . She approves Zelena and welcomes her into the Sisterhood of Witches . After Zelena banishes Glinda and becomes the Wicked Witch of the West , the Witch of the North relocates to the North permanently and is known by all as a wicked witch . One day , Stanum cuts down a tree in her region . As punishment , she curses Stanum , who would slowly turn to tin . Witch of the East N / A Sharon Taylor Unknown The Witch of the East is one of the witches of the Land of Oz . As the Witch of the East , she rules the East region of the Land of Oz . She is also part of the Sisterhood of Witches , along with Glinda and the Witch of the North . She works alongside the other witches to find the prophesied Witch of the East , and eventually is greeted to Zelena . However , Zelena turns wicked and takes over all of the Land of Oz , and the Witch of the East is relocated to the East permanently . Queen Gerda N / A Pascale Hutton Ava Marie Telek ( child ) Deceased Pascale Hutton Queen Gerda is the former Queen of Arendelle , mother of Elsa and Anna , and sister to Ingrid and Helga . The youngest of the three sisters , Gerda and her sisters seeks Rumplestiltskin 's help in controlling Ingrid 's magic . Unfortunately , after seeing Helga 's destroyed frozen body , Gerda , realizing Ingrid , whether intentionally or not , killed Helga , exiles Ingrid into a magical urn . Gerda then requests a memory spell from Grand Pabbie to have Arendelle and everyone outside forget about the existence of Helga and Ingrid . Years later , Gerda and her husband leave on a mission to find a way to remove their daughter Elsa 's powers , only to die in a shipwreck . Bo Peep N / A Robin Weigert Alive Bo Peep is a warlord . She intimidates people into paying her money or facing life as a slave once she brands them with her shepherd 's crook . Arriving at David and his mother Ruth 's farm , she seeks payment from them . Knowing that they do n't have the money at that time , she brands them using her crook and leaves . At that time , a travelling visitor , Anna , witness the confrontation . Anna then teaches David to sword fight in order to go against Bo Peep . Anna is later imprisoned by Bo Peep after knowing about this . Bo Peep later battle 's with David , leading to her weapon getting stuck in a pillar at her base , losing the battle . David takes her crook and uses it to find Anna , rescuing her . Sometime later , Bo Peep is taken to Storybrooke by the Dark Curse . In Storybrooke , she is a butcher at Chop Shop . One day , she is visited by David and Captain Hook , asking for her help . She refuses to help him , demanding that she owes him none . David interrogates her demanding to know about Anna , whom she branded years ago . Claiming that she had branded many people and that she could n't remember the girl , David instructs Hook to take her crook . Angered by their actions , Bo Peep mocks David for being a hero in this world . Grand Pabbie N / A John Rhys - Davies ( voice ) Alive John Rhys - Davies Grand Pabbie is the King of the Rock Trolls that live in Arendelle . After Gerda seals her sister Ingrid in a mystical urn following Ingrid 's unintentional murder of her sister , she requests Grand Pabbie give her a memory potion for Arendelle to forget the existence of Helga and Ingrid . Gerda later dies in a shipwreck , leaving her daughters Elsa and Anna as orphans . When Belle visits Arendelle , Anna takes her to see Grand Pabbie to give her a stone that will restore her memories of her mother 's death . Prince Hans N / A Tyler Jacob Moore Alive Prince Hans is the archenemy of Queen Elsa and Anna from the Southern Isles who attempts to take over the kingdom of Arendelle . Hans and his brothers locate a mystical urn to imprison Elsa within , though when Hans opens it , he unknowingly releases Ingrid ( the Snow Queen ) , who freezes Hans . After thirty years , Arendelle awakens from Ingrid 's frozen spell . Hans reunites with his brothers and becomes the new King of Arendelle , with his first act being to arrest Anna and her love Kristoff . Hans plans to send the pair to their deaths by throwing them into the sea . Meanwhile , in Storybrooke , Elsa transports Anna and Kristoff to the town , saving them . Reunited , the trio return to Arendelle and banish Hans and his brothers , taking back the kingdom . Colette N / A Frances O'Connor Deceased Colette is the wife of Sir Maurice and mother of Belle . During an ogre attack at her castle , she is alerted by the guards to evacuate the palace . Busily collecting books she deems too valuable to leave behind , Colette orders them to take the filled trunks to the carriage . She calls to Belle , who scurries over with the book her mother once read to her . Before they can leave , an ogre enters the room as the two hide under a table . The ogre rips away the table obscuring the mother - daughter pair from view . To save Belle , Colette sacrifices herself to the ogre as the guards pulls Belle out of the room . Soon after this , she is killed by the ogres . Duke of Weselton N / A Jonathan Runyon Alive The Duke of Weselton is a man who is enamored with Helga , a princess of Arendelle . Arriving at Arendelle Castle during King Harald 's birthday , he soon became attracted to the King 's middle child , Helga . He is introduced to the King by Helga and the two share a dance together . He later comes across Ingrid , the heir to Arendelle 's throne . He remarks on her incredible beauty . As he makes advances on her , Ingrid rebuffs him , and out of panic , she blasts him away with ice magic . Helga then comes to the Duke 's aid , where he accuses Ingrid of trying to win his romantic affection . Helga claims that he is lying and believes her sister . The Duke threatens to expose Ingrid to everyone in Arendelle because he believes the people deserve to know their future queen is a monster . At this , an angered Ingrid attempts to blast him , but the Duke uses Helga as a shield and she takes the magical hit while the Duke escapes . Later , his memories of this incident is wiped out when Gerda urges Grand Pabbie to erase memories of the existence of Ingrid and Helga over the realm . Helga N / A Sally Pressman Bailey Herbert ( child ) Deceased Sally Pressman Helga is the daughter of King Harald and Queen Sonja and the middle sister to Ingrid and Gerda . She is unlike her sister Gerda who was a little scared of Ingrid 's ice powers was not afraid at all and loved her no matter what . After seeking help from Rumplestiltskin to control Ingrid 's powers , the Duke of Weselton who proposed to Helga attempts to seduce Ingrid but is pushed down by Ingrid 's magic . After seeing this he blames Ingrid and says she tried to seduced him but Helga knows he 's lying and turns down his proposal but he threatens to tell Arendelle about Ingrid 's powers and Ingrid tries to freeze him but Helga is pushed in front of him and is frozen instead . Her body is then turn to ice and crumbles in Ingrid 's hands . N / A Madame Faustina Rebecca Wisocky Alive Rebecca Wisocky Madame Faustina is a charlatan who tricks people in seeing the future . In 1982 in Boston , after Ingrid arrive in the Land Without Magic , she visits Madame Faustina to see the future on a yet - to - be born child . Madame Faustina agrees to use her crystal ball to see the child 's future . Halfway , Madame Faustina mistakenly tells the child name as `` Susan '' when the child to - be 's name is `` Emma '' . Angrily , Ingrid storms out of the shop and tries to use her ice magic on Madame Faustina . As Ingrid does not have her magic in this land , Madame Faustina chases her away with a broomstick . King Stefan N / A Sebastian Roché Deceased Sebastian Roché King Stefan is the husband of Queen Briar Rose and father to Princess Aurora . Years ago , when Queen Briar Rose was inflicted with the Sleeping Curse by Maleficent , King Stefan breaks it with true love 's kiss . Years later , he captures Maleficent and Regina and sentences them to execution but fails when Maleficent turns into a dragon and attacks them . King Stefan and his men escaped so instead , Maleficent curses Princess Aurora , his daughter . King Poseidon N / A Ernie Hudson Alive Ernie Hudson King Poseidon is a sea god who is the father of Ursula and had a wife who was killed by a pirate that she helped . Ursula had a disagreement with her father where she was to user her voice to harm people as long as she is in his ocean . Glowerhaven . With help from his men , King Poseidon had Captain Hook brought to the Jolly Roger where King Poseidon wants him to give Ursula an enchanted sea shell to take away her singing voice so that she can give up her dream and return to the ocean . After Ursula meets with Captain Hook with the squid ink , King Poseidon arrived where he claimed that he did n't want to lose Ursula like how he lost her mother . To make King Poseidon suffer after ruining his plans , Captain Hook was forced to take away Ursula 's voice as she flees into the ocean . Back at his lair , King Poseidon apologized to Ursula for what happened . Ursula decides to form his own side and grabs his trident which she uses to transform herself into an appearance similar to the Ursula of legend . Many years later , Captain Hook enlists Ariel to find King Poseidon . Once that was done , Captain Hook arrives with King Poseidon ( who was brought here by Ariel ) who tries to reason with Ursula while mentioning that he has a part of his wife in Ursula . King Poseidon manages to successfully return Ursula 's voice . Afterwards , Ursula reconciles with her father . King Poseidon and Ursula then return to their ocean . Madeline N / A Anna Galvin Deceased Madeline is the mother of Cruella De Vil and a professional dog trainer . As a young women , Madeline marries and has a daughter , Cruella , but loses her husband one day by poison . She remarries again , but both of her husbands dies of poisoning . She later discovers that Cruella poisoned her father and stepfathers . Refusing to go to the authorities , she locks Cruella away in the attic of her mansion . Years later , she becomes known for her dog training skills all around 1920s England . An author , Isaac Heller , arrives at her mansion hoping to write a juicy story on her life . After he makes an inappropriate comment on her deceased husbands , Madeline kicks him out . Madeline later confronts Isaac and pleads with him to stay away from Cruella as she is a vicious murderer , but ultimately , she is killed by her dalmatian dogs that was controlled by Cruella with her persuasion magic gifted to her by Isaac . Sir Kay N / A Lee Majdoub ( adult ) Ehren Kassam ( teenager ) 5 Deceased As a young boy , Sir Kay bullied Arthur that he would never pull Excalibur . As an adult , he attempts to claim Excalibur from its stone in Camelot . Though he is unable to causing the spell to disintegrate him . Sir Percival N / A Andrew Jenkins 5 Deceased As a boy , Sir Percival witnesses the burning of a village at the hands of the Evil Queen Regina , ultimately killing his family by having her guards slaughter them . As an adult , he seeks his revenge upon the Storybrooke residents arrival in Camelot including a reformed Regina . Offering Regina a dance at King Arthur 's ball , he attempts to kill her , instead stabbing Robin Hood . David ( Prince Charming ) intercepts Percival , killing him in self - defense . King Arthur and Queen Guinevere were devastated that Sir Percival would harm one of their guests . Grif N / A Giacomo Baessato 5 Deceased Grif is King Arthur 's squire at Camelot . In a chamber at the Capital of Camelot 's castle , Grif brings in a relic chest for King Arthur and David before their quest to retrieve the Crimson Crown . He is later seen along with the other knights when King Arthur entitles David as a Knight of the Round Table . When Hook cast the third curse , Grif is brought over to Storybrooke with his memories of the six weeks erased . Under King Arthur 's order , he pretends to steal a magic bean from King Arthur 's relic chest . After David captures him and places him in jail , King Arthur confronts him about the situation and Grif mentions to King Arthur that there was no bean in the chest . Hoping to keep this a secret , King Arthur makes Grif drink viper poison for the sake of Camelot . Sir Hank Morgan N / A Ryan Robbins 5 Alive Ryan Robbins Sir Hank Morgan is the father of Violet . Originally from the Land Without Stories , Hank ended up in Camelot where he married and had Violet as his only child . He is then knighted into the Knights of the Round Table . Sometime later , he loses his wife to magic . Years later , he meets Henry Mills in the stables when he , alongside with the others , came to Camelot . As Henry is clumsily wielding a sword , Sir Morgan looks down on him stating that he would not be a good match for Violet . He then tells Henry to leave before he causes too much damage . When the new Dark One - Hook cast another Dark Curse , Sir Morgan is transported to Storybrooke . Sometime later after ending up in Storybrooke , Sir Morgan struggled to find Violet 's horse Nicodemus after it had gone missing . Later that night , Sir Morgan takes Violet to the town party where Henry managed to find Nicodemus and bring him back to Violet . Sir Morgan was pleased with Henry returning Nicodemus and states that he would be a good knight someday . When he leaves to take Nicodemus back to the stables , he leaves Henry and Violet alone . After Robin Hood 's funeral , the people of Camelot return home except Sir Morgan and Violet who both wish to stay in Storybrooke . Nimue N / A Caroline Ford Guy Fauchon ( first appearance ) 5 Deceased Nimue is a woman who had befriended Merlin . After her village is attacked by Vortigan , she came to Merlin looking for the Holy Grail to defeat him , forcing Merlin to forge the grail into Excalibur , but Nimue drank from the grail before he forced it , giving her magic and tempted her into killing Vortigan . Becoming the first Dark One , Merlin tethers her to a dagger , taken from the tip of Excalibur . Nimue then turns Merlin into a tree as punishment . She eventually dies , as the power of the Dark One moves to another soul , but her spirit remains to other Dark Ones while she lives in the Underworld . With Hook 's help , Nimue is returned to the land of the living from the Underworld and helps the rest of the Dark Ones place the Mark of Charon on Emma 's family and friends to bring them to the Underworld and switch places with them . When Emma tries to stop them , Nimue chokes her to prevent them from stopping them but Hook then uses Excalibur to absorb her and all the Dark Ones into himself and have Emma kill him to destroy the Darkness and set them free . After Hook 's death Mr. Gold reveals to Emma that he used a magic potion to turn Excalibur into a conduit to transfer all the Dark Ones magic including Nimue , Emma , and Hook back into him , making him more powerful than ever . Triplet Brothers N / A Brother 1 : Colton Barnert Brother 2 : Jordan Olson Brother 3 : Matthew Olson 5 Alive The Triplet Brothers are the sons of King Fergus and Queen Elinor and brothers to Merida . After Merida became Queen , the other clans kidnapped the three brothers as they are displeased with a women being their leader . They were originally to kill the brothers , but were stopped by Merida using her bow and arrow skills . The brothers are eventually returned home to their mother . Vortigan N / A Darren Moore 5 Deceased Vortigan is a cloaked masked man who practiced dark magic . Vortigan destroyed Nimue 's village of Oxleigh which led to her enlisting Merlin to help her . Merlin eventually figured out that Vortigan wanted to obtain the Holy Grail . While at the ruins of Nimue 's village , Merlin sensed that Vortigan was on their trail . At the Flame of Prometheus , Nimue ripped out Vortigan 's heart and crushed it , killing him for revenge of him destroying her village . She then claimed Vortigan 's mask and cloak . King Fergus N / A Glenn Keogh 5 Deceased King Fergus is the husband of Queen Elinor , father of Merida and his triplet sons and former King of DunBroch . In a war against King Arthur and his knights , King Fergus was killed . It was revealed that he once visited the Witch of DunBroch where he did n't use the Enchanted Helm that she once loaned to him . Since then , his daughter , Merida , became Queen of DunBroch . Sometime later , the Witch gave Merida some Ale of Seonaidh to talk to her father from the afterlife . Queen Elinor N / A Caroline Morahan 5 Alive Queen Elinor is the wife of King Fergus and mother to Merida and her triplet sons . Years before the curse , she was cursed by the Witch who Merida wanted her to change her mother but instead was turned into a bear . The curse was later reversed by Merida after they mended their mother and daughter bond . Sometime after King Fergus ' death , her daughter reunited the divided clans of their kingdom and became Queen of DunBroch . Witch N / A Lily Knight 5 Alive The Witch is an unnamed old lady who possesses limited ability of magic in DunBroch . The Witch once cursed Queen Elinor by turning her into a bear . The curse is then reversed by Merida , although it remains unknown how . The Witch 's curse is known by King Ferguson and all parts of DunBroch comes to know about her magic . Years later , she is visited by King Fergus at her cottage . He requests something to allow him to defeat the incoming invaders from the south and ensure the fate of his kingdom . She requests payment and has him sign a contract as an `` I.O.U. '' before getting to work , and presents him with an Enchanted Helm that will cause any army to willingly follow the wearer into battle , no matter the dangers . During Merida 's coronation , the Witch insists that the clans pay her the price Fergus owed her . However , when she names the price , Merida argues that it will make the clans broke three times over and the Witch requests that she simply return the helm instead , and gives her until the following sunset to do so , lest the Witch turn her entire kingdom into bears . While she 's back at her cottage , she 's visited by King Arthur and Zelena , whom also wishes to find the Enchanted Helm . The Witch returns a couple hours early the next day to see if Merida succeeded , but instead of returning the helm , Merida decides to destroy it . However , much to her surprise , the Witch does not cast the spell and turn the kingdom into bears . Instead , she reveals that this was her plan the entire time . Merida realizes that the quest for the helm taught her how to lead the kingdom , thus ensuring the fate of the kingdom , just as Fergus requested , and Elinor scolds the Witch for not being straightforward . The Witch shrugs it off , and gives Merida the Ale of Seonaidh that can bring the spirit of anyone who has passed on into the Underworld back temporarily so that she can speak with her father . Brennan Jones N / A Adam Croasdell 5 Deceased Brennan Jones is a criminal who is the father of Liam Jones and Killian Jones . Brennan took his two young sons with him and they traveled the seas . He had to calm Killian down when the ship was in a storm . Upon arriving at the latest port , Brennan learned that the authorities want to apprehend him . He sold the servitude of his sons to the boat while he escaped . For a brief while , Brennan was captured and put under a sleeping curse until he was awoken by his nurse . Upon changing his ways , Brennan and the nurse got married and had a son that Brennan named Liam , after his first born son . Brennan later got a job as a bartender . While cleaning up the bar around closing time , Brennan encountered a grown - up Killian who was sent by the Evil Queen to kill him . Brennan explains what happened after he disappeared from the ship and the path that led him to changing into a better person . Seeing his father regret that he was n't the parent he should have been , Killian softens towards him , deciding to spare him by giving him passage to elsewhere as a way to trick the Evil Queen into believing that he killed Brennan . Brennan thanks him and asks him for a second transportation permit for Liam . After tucking Liam in his bed , Killian arrived with the transportation permits where he overhears his father 's words to Liam . This made Killian angry at Brennan 's lies enough to destroy the transportation permits . Then he chooses to follow the Evil Queen 's orders by killing Brennan , despite the fact that Liam II needed someone to provide for him . Before he dies , Brennan tells Killian that it 's not too late to become the man that he wants to be . Liam N / A Nick Eversman ( adult ) Sebastian West ( child ) 5 , 6 Alive Nick Eversman Liam is the son of Brennan Jones and younger half - brother of Liam and Killian Jones . He is named after the deceased Liam Jones . As a boy , he is left orphaned when his father is killed . Struggling with life at the docks , he is taken by Captain Nemo and raised as his own son . Captain Nemo also teaches him that seeking revenge for his father 's killer is no use . When the Evil Queen cast her curse , somehow , Captain Nemo managed to escape the curse 's scope with Liam by fleeing from the Enchanted Forest . The curse then freezes the Enchanted Forest and many other lands in time . Liam , however , was the only one who aged during the twenty - eight years of the Dark Curse . When Emma Swan enters Storybrooke in 2011 , the curse is weakened and time resumes back in the Enchanted Forest . At the time , after Captain Nemo brings Captain Hook to join him in the Nautilus , he finds out that Hook is his elder half - brother and their father 's killer . Attempt to kill Hook , he accidentally stabs Captain Nemo instead as Hook flees . In order to save Nemo , Liam uses a key and opens a portal to the Land of Untold Stories , halting both of their stories . Years later , Liam ends up in Storybrooke when Mr. Hyde brings some of the refugees from the Land of Untold Stories to Storybrooke . Liam kidnaps Hook as payback for killing their father and for the `` death '' of Captain Nemo . With Henry 's help , Hook knocks down Liam , leaving him unconscious . Liam is then taken to the hospital by Hook where they both bond and forgive one another . Hook also reveals to him that Captain Nemo is still alive as Captain Nemo is wheeled into the room reunited . After Gideon commandeered the Nautilus to take off , Liam helped Captain Hook and Captain Nemo into finding a Kraken where they would obtain its blood to refuel the Nautilus component that enables it to travel to the oceans of the different worlds . During this time , Captain Nemo and Liam met Aladdin and Jasmine . Due to the Nautilus having taken damage from the Kraken attacks , Jasmine used Aladdin 's genie abilities to wish herself , Aladdin , Captain Hook , Captain Nemo , and Liam to the nearest island which happens to be Hangman 's Island . Before heading off to find where Jafar 's lamp is held , Captain Hook parted ways with Captain Nemo and Liam who remained on shore with the Nautilus ' crew where they are working to salvage the Nautilus . Hercules N / A Jonathan Whitesell 5 Deceased Hercules is the demigod son of Zeus and the nephew of Hades . In his earlier life , he had saved a younger Snow White from a beast trap and trained her in being a warrior . He showed Snow White his medals for his labours where the 12th one that he is going to do is to defeat Cerberus . After her first attempt with the bandits that were plaguing Snow White 's kingdom failed , Hercules punched the ground hard enough to send the bandits running . After some persuasion , Snow White was successful at fending off the bandits the next time they showed up . When he ends up where Cerberus was , he bought Megara some time to get away from Cerberus . Hercules fought Cerberus the best he could before being slain followed by Megara getting killed afterwards . In the Underworld , Hercules works at Underbrooke 's docks and visits the Underworld 's version of Granny 's during his lunch break . Upon being tipped off on how to find him by the second Blind Witch , Mary Margaret found him and persuaded him to help find Captain Hook while planning to have his unfinished business of defeating Cerberus be resolved . When Cerberus later attacks , Hercules works with Mary Margaret and Megara where they managed to defeat Cerberus . Afterwards , Hercules and Megara ascended to Mount Olympus . Megara N / A Kacey Rohl 5 Deceased Megara is a woman that had a brief encounter with Hercules in the Enchanted Forest . In the Enchanted Forest , after Hercules was killed , Cerberus caught up to Megara and killed her as well . She then was sent to the Underworld . In the Underworld , Megara was a prisoner in one of the tunnels where Hades keeps his prisoners . She meets Captain Hook who manages to buy her some time to get away . She is founded by Emma Swan and Regina Mills . When Cerberus catches up to Megara , Mary Margaret and Hercules had to work hard to keep her safe . With some persuasion from Mary Maraget , Megara helps Mary Margaret and Hercules defeat Cerberus . Being reunited with Hercules was her unfinished business , she got it resolved . Afterwards , Megara and Hercules ascended to Mount Olympus . Fendrake N / A Aaron Douglas 5 Deceased Aaron Douglas Fendrake is a healer in the Enchanted Forest . In the Enchanted Forest , he is approached by Rumplestiltskin and Milah who requires his help to heal their son Baelfire . However , when the price for the healing potion is too high , Milah suggests that Rumplestiltskin to kill him . However , instead of killing him , Rumplestiltskin makes a deal with him for his second - born child . Years later , Rumplestiltskin , now the Dark One pays a visit to Fendrake 's tent , where he kills him . After his death , Fendrake goes to the Underworld . In the Underworld , he sells the contract he did with Rumplestiltskin years ago to Hades . Captain Silver N / A Costas Mandylor 5 Deceased Costas Mandylor Captain Silver is the boss of a merchant ship . After overhearing that Liam Jones has plans to enlist himself and his brother Killian to the King 's Navy , he tricks Killian into spending his silver coins need to enlist himself into the navy . Later , he commands the ship into a disastrous storm , but Liam later takes over the command of the ship . The ship eventually is destroyed in the storm killing Captain Silver and all of his crew except Liam and Killian who survived due to a deal made by Liam with Hades . Captain Silver then ends up in the Underworld . In the Underworld , he and his crew reveals to Killian , now known as Hook , that Liam made a deal with Hades to spare them both leaving him and the rest to die . He and his crew then kidnap both Hook and Liam and brings them to the Fiery Cave hoping to send them both to the Worst Place . Angered that Captain Silver did not invite him to see this , Hades arrived and uses his magic and pushes Captain Silver into the fiery pit , sending him to the Worst Place . Scarecrow N / A Paul Scheer ( voice ) 5 Unknown Paul Scheer The Scarecrow is a living scarecrow that lives in Oz . Many years ago , Zelena targeted the Scarecrow in order to use his brain as part of her first attempt to cause a time - travel spell . Before Zelena can remove the brain , Dorothy and Toto intervened where they managed to get away . With help from Hades enchanting a bicycle , Zelena tracked down where Dorothy and Scarecrow were hiding out . After Zelena used her magic to magically freeze Dorothy , Zelena successfully removed Scarecrow 's brain and was about to show it to Hades only to find that he is not there . It is unknown what happen to the Scarecrow or his brain because when Zelena had attempted her time travel spell in Storybrooke , she planned on using Gold 's brain . Emily Brown N / A Gina Stockdale 5 Deceased Emily Brown is Dorothy Gale 's aunt . She is often called as Aunt Em by Dorothy . After Dorothy returns from her trip to Oz , Dorothy tells her family about her trip . While the rest of the family refuses to believe , Aunt Em was the only one who believed Dorothy and refuses to send Dorothy to an asylum after she was doomed insane by the others . Sometime later , Aunt Em dies , gifting Toto to Dorothy . In the Underworld , Aunt Em runs a diner called `` Auntie 's Chicken and Waffles '' that the Blind Witch considers as the competition . Emma , Mary Margaret , and Red make an attempt to use a bottle given to them by the Blind Witch to have Aunt Em blow some kisses in there as part of an attempt for Ruby to wake Dorothy from the Sleeping Curse as part of her unfinished business of knowing that Dorothy is alright . Before she can do , Aunt Em 's body turned to water before dissolving . Hades appears stating that he has spiked her soup with the River of Lost Souls as Regina stated that they were trying to help Dorothy . After mopping up the watery remains of Aunt Em and putting them in a jar , Hades informs the other souls present to let Aunt Em 's fate be a warning to anyone who turn to the Underworld visitors for hope . Later on while meeting with Zelena , Hades dumped Aunt Em 's watery remains into the River of Lost Souls . N / A Cleo Fox Rya Kihlstedt 5 Deceased Rya Kihlstedt Cleo Fox is a bail bondswoman and biological mother to Tasha Morris . Cleo was tracking Emma after she was wanted in a series of robberies in Phoenix sometime after being released from prison . When she caught up with Emma who was looking for her birth parents in 2009 , Cleo arrested her and was preparing to extradite Emma back to Arizona . Afterwards , the two became friends and despite going against her principles , Cleo help Emma search for her parents even going far as helping Emma escape authorities after she broke into a building to obtain information . When they escaped the building , Cleo started to die after having a shard of glass stab into her stomach and before Cleo let her go , she told Emma that she had a daughter that she gave up ten years earlier and told her to run as she died . When Emma became a bondswoman a year later , she returned the favor and found Cleo 's daughter Tasha and told her about Cleo . At the store where Tasha worked , Emma spotted the red jacket and it became her outfit ever since . Zeus N / A David Hoflin 5 Alive Zeus is the King of the Gods and the ruler of Mount Olympus . He is the brother of Hades and the father of Hercules . In his early life , Zeus became the ruler of Mount Olympus while Hades became ruler of the Underworld . Hades has since been jealous of his brother 's position . After Captain Hook completed his unfinished business where Emma and Zelena had defeated Hades , he arrived on Mount Olympus where he met Zeus who congratulated Captain Hook for his involvement in his misguided brother 's defeat . Zeus then takes Captain Hook to his reward . That reward turned out to be Captain Hook getting a second chance at life as he is reunited with Emma . Poole N / A Arnold Pinnock 5 Alive Poole is Mr Hyde 's assistant in the Land of Untold Stories When David , Mary Margaret , Zelena and Hook ends up in the Land of Untold Stories , Poole zaps them with his baton and keeps them in a cell protected by a magical barrier . Later , after becoming drunk , Dr. Jekyll steals the keys to the cell , freeing them and escaping to Dr. Jekyll 's apartment . Poole later alerted Mr. Hyde and they both shows up at Dr. Jekyll 's apartment . Poole is later knock unconscious by Zelena . Sir Mordred N / A James Marsters 5 Deceased James Marsters Sir Mordred only appears in the fifth season 's DVD special `` Tales From The Underworld : A Knight With Cruella '' . Sir Mordred is the former Knight of the Round Table . After betraying King Arthur , Sir Mordred briefly takes over Camelot as its new King . However , King Arthur fights back and eventually kills Mordred . Mordred is then sent to the Underworld due to his unfinished business . About fifty years after King Arthur becomes the ruler of the Underworld , he meets Cruella De Vil in his bar , where they discuss his past with King Arthur and about moving on , which both him and Cruella chooses not to do . Oracle N / A Jordyn Ashley Olson 6 Deceased The Oracle is a young nurse in Agrabah . After Aladdin develops a hand tremor from his role as the Savior , the Oracle becomes his caretaker , hiding out at a cottage somewhere in the desert . One day , a man from a kingdom in Agrabah comes to the cottage for help , but is killed by Jafar moments later . Jafar also knocks out the Oracle with his magic before seeking an audience with Aladdin . Sometime later , by unknown means , the Oracle goes to the Land of Untold Stories for unknown reasons . Years later , Mr. Hyde brings her and some other folks from the Land of Untold Stories to Storybrooke . There , she meets Emma , the current Savior and shows Emma her future , where she is destined to die in the hands of an unknown person . She later secretly meets with Princess Jasmine and discuss about Aladdin 's presence in Storybrooke . She is later visited by the Evil Queen offscreen , hoping to find out about Emma Swan 's vision . As the Oracle refuses to help , the Evil Queen kills her . Emma and Archie later find her dead body . Edmond Dantès / Count of Monte Cristo N / A Craig Horner 6 Deceased Craig Horner Edmond Dantès is a man from 19th Century France . When Edmond 's fiancèe is murdered by Baron Danglars and his home is burned down by him , Edmond is framed and imprisoned for the murder . After escaping , he becomes the Count of Monte Cristo . During a party hosted by him , he kills Baron Danglers in - front of the other guests fulfilling his revenge for what Danglers did to him . The Evil Queen appears recruits him to kill Snow White and Prince Charming . He then leaves to the Enchanted Forest with the Evil Queen . However , after seeing Snow White 's handmaiden Charlotte , he rethinks his action and refuses to kill them with the Agrabahn Viper Poison . Rumplestiltskin thinks that he will interrupt his plan to make the Queen cast the curse , so he poisons Charlotte with the same poison . As there is no cure for the poison , Rumplestiltskin tells the Count that the only way to save her is to halt her story . He gives the Count and Charlotte a passageway to the Land of Untold Stories . Years later , Mr. Hyde brings the Count and various other refugees from the Land of Untold Stories to Storybrooke . During his time in Storybrooke , he meets Regina 's former counterpart -- the Evil Queen , who rips his heart out and forces him to kill David and Mary Margaret . He is then killed by Regina , unintentionally , who throws her sword into his back in order to save David and Mary Margaret . Charlotte N / A Andrea Brooks 6 Deceased Charlotte is Snow White 's handmaiden . In the Enchanted Forest , after becoming Snow White 's handmaiden , she travels with them to a nearby burned - down village where they meet the Count , who introduces himself as Edmond . Sometime after Edmond starts working at the castle , he began to see the resemblance in Charlotte 's eyes similar to his deceased fiancèe . When he tries to kill Snow White and Prince Charming with the Agrabahn Viper Poison , he rethinks after seeing Charlotte 's eyes . Later , Charlotte is poisoned by Rumplestiltskin and states to Edmond that there is no cure for the poison . In order to save her , Rumplestiltskin tells the Count that he needs to halt her story , therefore , taking her to the Land of Untold Stories . Years later , Charlotte is among the refugees brought to Storybrooke from the Land of Untold Stories by Mr. Hyde . After arriving in Storybrooke , her story continues resulting in her dying from the poison years ago . Jacob N / A Max Lloyd - Jones 6 Alive Jacob is Prince Thomas ' footman and Clorinda 's lover . In the Enchanted Forest , he falls in love with Clorinda and gets into a secret relationship with her . One day , he arrives at Lady Tremaine 's estate , inviting the family to a royal ball at Prince Thomas ' castle . Later , both he and Clorinda plans to runaway together to start a little farm , but Cinderella gives a key to the Land of Untold Stories to Clorinda . Instead , Clorinda suggests to Jacob to travel there . However , their plan was put to a stop when Lady Tremaine found out . She injures Jacob and then banishes Clorinda and herself to the Land of Untold Stories . When the Evil Queen cast the curse , Jacob is sent to the Land Without Magic . In Storybrooke , Jacob is a pumpkin farmer . When Lady Tremaine and Clorinda end up in Storybrooke , Lady Tremaine tries to kill him with Jacob and Cinderella in her clutches , but Clorinda gets in the way . She stabs Ashley instead , but Emma cures her and Lady Tremaine is arrested . Jacob and Clorinda then catches up alongside with Ashley and Sean . Mary N / A Elizabeth Blackmore 6 Deceased Mary is the daughter of Dr. Arthur Lydgate . In Victorian England , she initially fell in love with Dr. Henry Jekyll , but eventually ends up falling in love with Dr. Jekyll 's alter ego Mr. Hyde . She later finds out that Mr. Hyde is actually Dr. Jekyll and confronts him , leading to a heated argument resulting in Mary falling from her bedroom window to her death . Sultan of Agrabah N / A Cedric De Souza 6 Alive The Sultan of Agrabah is the father of Princess Jasmine and ruler of the Capital of Agrabah . After Jafar dethrones his father who ruled one of Agrabah 's kingdoms , Jafar travels to the Capital of Agrabah where he uses the Serpent Staff to control the Sultan of Agrabah . Obeying to Jafar , the Sultan of Agrabah makes Jafar his Vizier , unknown to him about Jafar 's plan for Agrabah . When Aladdin breaks the Serpent Staff into half , the spell on the Sultan of Agrabah is lifted and is reunited with Princess Jasmine while Jafar escapes . At the time when the Sultan was meeting with possible suitors for Princess Jasmine , Jafar crashed the meeting where he mentioned that Aladdin is too broken to help them . The Sultan of Agrabah also witnesses Jafar using a transformation potion on Prince Achmed which turned him into a wooden staff that has a wooden carving of his head on it . Goldilocks N / A Kate Dion - Richard 6 Alive Goldilocks is the owner of the Three Bears Day Spa in Storybrooke . Following the closure of Any Given Sundae sometime after Ingrid 's death , Goldilocks takes over the property and opens her spa . One day , the Evil Queen and Zelena visits her spa where she and an unnamed co-worker tender to their requirements . Captain Nemo N / A Faran Tahir 6 Alive Faran Tahir Captain Nemo is the captain of the Nautilus . In the Enchanted Forest , he meets a young orphaned boy named Liam who is struggling with life at the docks . Feeling sorry for the boy , Captain Nemo takes Liam in and raises him as his son . He also teaches the boy to never go on the path of revenge . When the Evil Queen cast her curse , Captain Nemo and Liam somehow manage to escape the curse 's scope by fleeing from the Enchanted Forest as the rest of the land and other worlds freezes in time . When Emma Swan enters Storybrooke in 2011 , the curse is weakened and time resumes back in the Enchanted Forest . Captain Nemo kidnaps Captain Hook and asks him to join him and Liam to find for a magical key for a second chance in life at the Mysterious Island . Eventually , Hook finds out about Liam 's identity , resulting in Liam accidentally stabbing Captain Nemo . As Captain Nemo bleeds , Liam uses the key to open a portal to the Land of Untold Stories which used the `` Mysterious Island '' alias . Arriving there , Captain Nemo stop bleeding as their story had been halted . Years later , Captain Nemo ends up in Storybrooke when Mr. Hyde brings some of the refugees from the Land of Untold Stories to Storybrooke . As his story is no longer halted , he continues to bleed and is found by David Nolan . He is brought to the hospital and into surgery . After the surgery , he is wheeled into a ward room where his bed roommate is Liam , reuniting with him . Captain Hook is later visited by Captain Nemo who gives him some advice on how to tell Emma about how he had previously killed David 's father Robert . In addition , Captain Nemo states that he , Liam Jones II , and his crew are heading out of Storybrooke . After a disastrous outcome with Emma upon being unable to come clean in the first place , Captain Hook informs Captain Nemo about it and asks if there is room for one more . Captain Nemo states that there is always a place for him on the Nautilus . After some talking with Mary Margaret Blanchard , Captain Hook meets with Captain Nemo to see him off only for Gideon to commandeer the Nautilus where he has it leave Storybrooke . After ending up off the coast of the Enchanted Forest , Captain Nemo worked with Captain Hook into finding a Kraken where they would obtain it 's blood to refuel the Nautilus component that enables it to travel to the oceans of the different worlds . During this time , Captain Nemo and Liam met Aladdin and Jasmine . Due to the Nautilus having taken damage from the Kraken attacks , Jasmine used Aladdin 's genie abilities to wish herself , Aladdin , Captain Hook , Captain Nemo , and Liam to the nearest island which happens to be Hangman 's Island . Before heading off to find where Jafar 's lamp is held , Captain Hook parted ways with Captain Nemo and Liam who remained on shore with the Nautilus ' crew where they are working to salvage the Nautilus . Gabriel N / A Paul Johansson 6 Deceased Gabriel is a bounty hunter who specialises in hunting werewolves and operates under the alias of the Woodcutter . Gabriel takes up the bounty to apprehend Snow White for the Evil Queen where his first attempt resulted in Snow White getting away with help from the Blue Fairy . Then he encounters David and his sheepdog Wilby where he gives him drugged water and uses Wilby to lure Snow White into a trap . After Gabriel traps Snow White against a tree and locking her in his wagon , David stumbled onto the wagon where he is attacked by Gabriel . With some inside help from Snow White , David kills Gabriel . King David N / A Josh Dallas 6 Deceased Josh Dallas King David is the husband of Queen Snow White , father of Princess Emma , grandfather of Prince Henry , and the ruler of the Wish Realm . Since banishing the Evil Queen before she could cast her curse , King David rules the Wish Realm peacefully with Queen Snow White and has a child , Princess Emma , and later a grandson , Prince Henry . On the day of Prince Henry 's ascendancy to knighthood , Regina , disguised as the Evil Queen , storms into the chamber , hoping Emma would remember her past as the Savior . As she fails , Regina takes David and Snow to her palace and keeps them as hostage . In order to make Emma remember , Regina rips out David 's and Snow 's heart and crushes it . Queen Snow White N / A Ginnifer Goodwin 6 Deceased Ginnifer Goodwin Queen Snow White is the wife of King David , mother of Princess Emma and grandmother of Prince Henry and the ruler of the Wish Realm 's version of the Enchanted Forest . When the Evil Queen ( Serum ) makes a wish for Emma to had never become the Savior , the Wish Realm is formed as a world of its own . Here , Queen Snow rules the realm alongside King David . In this alternate timeline , King David and Queen Snow had defeated the Evil Queen and banished her . Later in order to make Princess Emma embrace her role as the Savior and to retain her memories of her life , Regina captures King David and Queen Snow the same day when Henry was becoming a knight . During Emma 's confrontation with her , Regina unintentionally crushes King David and Queen Snows hearts in an attempt to snap Emma out of this illusion . Prince Henry N / A Jared S. Gilmore 6 Alive Jared S. Gilmore Prince Henry is the son of Princess Emma and Baelfire , and the grandson of King David and Queen Snow . When the Evil Queen ( Serum ) makes a wish for Emma to had never become the Savior , the Wish Realm is formed as a world of its own . Here , Prince Henry trains to be a knight and arrives late at Princess Emma 's birthday celebration . On the day of his assertion to knighthood , Regina ( masquerading as the Evil Queen of the Wish Realm ) , shows up uninvited where she takes King David and Queen Snow as prisoners . Prince Henry later follows his mother to the Dark Palace to seek the Evil Queen . After Regina unintentionally kills King David and Queen Snow by crushing their heart , Prince Henry lures his sword towards Regina with intentions of killing her , but Princess Emma stops the act with her magic , fully aware of the situation and remembers her life back in her own world . Prince Henry later lead his army to look for the Evil Queen in order to punish her for what she did to his grandparents . In addition , he has sent out word to have his mother brought back to him . Rumplestiltskin N / A Robert Carlyle 6 , 7 Alive Robert Carlyle Rumplestiltskin is a powerful Dark One who loves to make deals with a price . After giving the Evil Queen a Dark Curse , he is imprisoned underneath her Dark Palace . One day , he is listed by his long time enemy , Hook , who makes a deal with him for his freedom . Agreeing to the agreement , Rumplestiltskin reveals to Hook the whereabout of Captain Ahab , who possesses an enchanted talisman that Hook requires . Rumplestiltskin is then visited by Hook once again after acquiring the item , ready to deliver his part of the bargain . However , due to Ahab 's interruption , Rumplestiltskin remains in his jail cell . Years after the Dark Curse breaks , Rumplestiltskin is visited by Regina who needs help in saving Emma . Rumplestiltskin shares some encouragement to Regina to bring in fear upon the realm in order to save Emma , in - exchange for his freedom . Regina toughens the bargain by seeking a magic bean from him . Happy with the agreement , Rumplestiltskin is released from his jail cell . He then meets up with Regina and Emma and hands over the magic bean . However , after finding out that Belle died due to starvation , and as he could n't locate the Wish Realm 's Evil Queen , Rumplestiltskin captures Regina , along with Robin of Locksley , with intention to punish her , but Regina escapes from him with Robin , and later with Emma back to Storybrooke . Robin of Locksley N / A Sean Maguire 6 Alive Sean Maguire Robin of Locksley is a bandit . As Emma and Regina tries to get back to Storybrooke through a portal , Robin appears to rob them . Regina , shocked to see Robin alive , approaches him , causing the portal to close . Robin robs them and leaves them as soon as Prince Henry and the knights approach . In the tavern , Regina approaches him and asks him about his life in the Wish Realm , and after figuring out that he is happy , she leaves him , but they are both captured by the Sheriff of Nottingham . Robin and Regina is then saved by Rumplestiltskin , who then captures them and locks them away in a prison cell . Robin breaks open the lock and escapes with Regina . After Emma and Pinocchio create a portal with an enchanted tree , Robin volunteers himself to follow them for a fresh start . Landing in Storybrooke , Regina welcomes him and lets him stay at her place . However , he gets uncomfortable with Regina comparing him to her Robin . He teams up with Zelena to leave town , but is confronted by Regina who agrees to help him leave town by figuring a way to take down the protection spell surrounding town . After the Evil Queen , still in cobra form , escapes her coil cage , she pays Robin a visit in the woods where she bites his hand to transform herself back to human form . She recruits Robin to dig up the Shears of Destiny and then uses him to lure Regina . However , as Robin pleas to return him home to his land , the Evil Queen helps him go home . Later in the tavern in the Wish Realm , he is reunited with the Evil Queen , who had a change of heart , wishing for a fresh start . The two talk , with the Evil Queen finally getting her happy ending with Robin . Pinocchio N / A Eion Bailey 6 Alive Eion Bailey Pinocchio is the son of Geppetto and a woodcarver . Upon becoming a real boy and growing up to be a woodcarver upon Geppetto 's passing , Emma Swan and Regina Mills approaches him to see if he still has the Wardrobe . He states that he dismantled it sometime after the Evil Queen 's defeat . Upon taking Emma to the enchanted grove , they are ambushed by Killian Jones . After Emma made Killian disappear back to the Jolly Roger , it was revealed that Pinocchio 's magic chisel was broken during the scuffle . Emma later convinces Pinocchio to take another shot at the magical tree . Pinocchio manages to obtain the wood in order to make a Magic Wardrobe . Then Pinocchio constructs the Magic Wardrobe just as Regina and the alternate Robin of Locksley arrive . Before entering the Magic Wardrobe , Emma and Regina thank Pinocchio for his help . Sheriff of Nottingham N / A Wil Traval 6 Alive Wil Traval Sheriff of Nottingham is an enforcer in Nottingham . He and his men ambush Regina Mills and Robin of Locksley at the bar . While having captured Robin of Locksley , he states to Regina that they have been prepared for the Evil Queen 's arrival . The Sheriff of Nottingham and his men are defeated by Rumplestiltskin . Roderick N / A Grayson Gabriel ( adult ) Mason McKenzie ( child ) 6 Deceased Roderick is one of the kidnapped children in the Dark Realm . Brought over to the Dark Realm by the Black Fairy , Roderick is forced to work in the mines digging for dark fairy dust . As a child , he is placed in a cell next to Gideon 's and became friends . One day , the Black Fairy finds out about Gideon 's plan to become a hero , so the Black Fairy takes Roderick away and whips him to prove Gideon wrong . As Roderick grows into a young adult , he began to rebel against the Black Fairy 's reign . He gets Gideon to side with him and together , her break into the Black Fairy 's chamber and uses a crystal ball to contact a savior in another realm . The Black Fairy finds out about it and foils their plan . Using the fairy dust , she turns Roderick into a bug and squishes him to death . Robert N / A David Cubitt 6 Deceased Robert is the late husband of Ruth and late father of David and James . After he and his wife gave up their son James to Rumplestiltskin to save their home , Robert struggles with being an alcoholic and supporting his family and home . He is shown drinking at a tavern when King George arrives announcing his son James is missing and an reward for whoever can bring him home so Robert plans to find him and bring him back to him and his family . After saying goodbye to his family he leaves to visits Rumplestiltskin to know where James is and reveals he ran away to a place called Pleasure Island . After making a deal with him he gives Robert a ticket to enter the place and after talking with Pinocchio who saw James he finds him and tells him he 's bringing him home but when they start to leave they run into King George and his men . As Robert refused to give up James , King George had his men kill Robert and have it look like an accident . Just before the guards are about to kill Robert Captain Hook and his crew arrive and kill the two guards and plan to take the gold . Believing he is safe , Robert begs Hook to set him free . Hook kills him upon quoting `` Dead Men Tell No Tales '' and tells him men to take his body and make it look like an accident occurred . Years later , David Nolan was told by the Evil Queen a brief info on what happened to his father . When David starts to see the ghost of his father who tells him he wants him to know the truth about him and his death , David asks Hook for his help in finding out who killed his father . After talking with August about his meeting with Robert , David believes King George killed his father and goes to fight and kill him but is stopped by Hook and Robert 's ghost is able to find peace with David knowing that his father fought to keep his family together . Beowulf N / A Torstein Bjørklund 6 Deceased Beowulf is a tall and boastful warrior . During the First Ogre Wars , Bewoulf was the commander of an army where he inspired them to fight against the invading Ogres where he wielded the sword Hrunting . When disarmed of the weapon by a helmeted Ogre , he and his surviving soldiers were saved by Rumplestiltskin who killed the Ogres and claimed Hrunting . Consumed by his anger and jealousy of Rumplestiltskin , Beowulf faked a Grendel attack where he secretly killed some people claiming that the Grendl killed them . This was a trap so that he can claim the Dark One 's Dagger , reclaim Hrunting , and frame Rumplestiltskin for the murders . Upon Baelfire reclaiming the Dark One 's Dagger , he summoned Rumplestiltskin who defeated him yet spared his life . Rumplestiltskin told him to take his leave and Beowulf does while pushing Baelfire aside . Consumed at the anger of what Beowulf did to him , Baelfire used the Dark One 's Dagger to make his father kill Beowulf . Rumplestiltskin regrettably did that by snapping his neck . Prince Achmed N / A Zahf Paroo 6 Transformed Prince Achmed is a prince from one of Agrabah 's cities . Prince Achmed comes to the Capital of Agrabah with hopes to marry Princess Jasmine and earn the Crown Jewel of Agrabah . During a meeting with the Sultan of Agrabah , Princess Jasmine and the other suitors , Jafar storms into the throne room and confronts Princess Jasmine about Aladdin , during in which Jafar insults the suitors . Angered with Jafar 's remarks , Prince Achmed stands up to Jafar , only to be transformed into a staff by Jafar as punishment . Stanum N / A Alex Désert ( adult ) Austin Obiajunwa ( teenager ) 6 Transformed Stanum is a woodcutter in the Land of Oz . As a teenager , he befriends Zelena and protects her from bullies who thinks she is a freak because of her magical abilities . Years later , he cuts down a tree in the North . Furious , the Wicked Witch of the North curses him to turn to tin . Before the transformation completes , Stanum goes to Emerald City to seek help from Zelena . Although she initially refuse to help him , she then agrees to do so out of bravery . When Stanum is attacked by the Cowardly Lion , Zelena rescues him and aids him to find the Crimson Heart . Despite finding it , Zelena finds out that she will have to give up her powers to save Stanum , and she refuses to do so . She leaves Stanum be as he fully transforms into tin while suggesting he ask Dorothy for help if she meets him . N / A Louie Darcy Laurie 7 Alive Louie is the strict manager at Mr. Cluck 's Chicken Shack in Seattle 's Hyperion Heights neighborhood . When Jacinda shows up late for work one day , Louie scolds her and offends her by mentioning the stereotypical view of a single mother in his point of view . Angered with his remarks , Jacinda calls him a jerk much to his dismay . Threatening Jacinda to apologise or risk losing her job , Jacinda chooses the latter . Later on , Jacinda is forced to get her job back from Louie after Victoria decides to take Lucy away from her . Despite their differences , Louie takes her back . Fairy Godmother N / A Jillian Fargey 7 Deceased The Fairy Godmother is a fairy in the New Enchanted Forest . After helping Cinderella get ready for a royal ball , the Fairy Godmother is caught by Lady Tremaine , who cuts off her wings as punishment for helping Cinderella . Lady Tremaine then takes her wand and calls for Drizella to explain about never using magic as power as it can be taken away , like the Fairy Godmother 's wand . Making an exception , the Fairy Godmother is killed by Lady Tremaine , in front of Drizella , with her own wand . Prince N / A Liam Hall 7 Deceased The Prince is the son of the King , and older brother of Prince Gregor . After betraying Ella , the Prince is responsible for the death of her father , damning Ella to a life of cleaning Lady Tremaine 's chambers . One day , he hosts a ball at his castle , hoping to find a suitor . He is presented with Drizella , but he rejects her . Ella later crashes his ball and tries to kill him , but backs away from the plan at the last minute , with the Prince thankful that she spared him . However , Lady Tremaine uses this opportunity by stabbing the Prince to death and pins the murder on Ella . N / A Michael Griffiths Simon Arblaster 7 Alive Michael Griffiths is the Executive Director of Hyperion Heights Department of Construction and Inspections . In order to speed up the demolition of a community garden , Victoria bribes Michael to get the proper documents needed to start digging the site . Detective Rogers investigates this and witness the exchange of cash between the two . Afar , Detective Weaver always witness this while spying on Detective Rogers . Tracking Michael down to a restaurant , Detective Rogers questions Michael 's role in helping Victoria , something which Michael denies , but Detective Rogers searches him and reveals the bribe money on him . Michael is then arrested and taken to the station . While Detective Rogers is away , Detective Weaver makes a deal with Michael , freedom for loyalty to him by giving information on Victoria whenever she makes a bribery with him . Accepting the deal , Michael leaves the station , smirking to a confused Detective Rogers as he passes him . Queen Eudora N / A Robin Givens 7 Alive Queen Eudora is wife of a King , and mother of Princess Tiana . After the death of her husband , Queen Eudora is forced to auction items of her castle to pay taxes after the King of their land raises them . Eudora suggests to her daughter that if she found a Prince to marry , then their financial problems may be solved . After Princess Tiana finds out that Prince Marias is just a commoner named Robert , Eudora consoles her daughter , regretting for ever telling Tiana to get married to solve their financial problems . Eudora eventually steps down as Queen as her daughter ascends her . Robert N / A Kevin Ryan 7 Alive Robert is a frog - turned - human . Cursed by Dr. Facilier into being a human , Robert is forced to work for Dr. Facilier as his lover is held captive by him . Robert poses as Prince Marias to lure Princess Tiana into falling for him in - order to steal Tiana 's father 's war medal . The ruse is then revealed to Tiana after she catches him stealing the medal . Initially not willing to give up her father 's medal , Tiana eventually trades the medal for Robert 's lover from Dr. Facilier . Robert is then reunited with his lover , who is a frog . With true love 's kiss , Robert is turned back to a frog , and together with his lover , they return to the swamp . Prince Gregor N / A Julian Haig 7 Deceased Prince Gregor is the son of the King , younger brother of the Prince , and a suitor of Drizella . Originally forced into getting married to him , Drizella takes advantage of the situation in order to threaten her mother . After acquiring better magic skills from Regina , Drizella goes to Prince Gregor for help to take down her mother . Gregor , after learning secrets of Lady Tremaine , heads over to her manor with Drizella by his side to confront Lady Tremaine , As he pulls out his sword against the women , Regina immortalises him to stop him and Drizella from killing Lady Tremaine . However , Drizella reveals that she never intended to do so , instead , she uses her magic and kills Gregor to darken her heart . Smee N / A Chris Gauthier 7 Alive Smee is a crew on the Jolly Roger . In the Wish Realm , while Hook tells Smee and the other crews to prepare his ship for a trip to a new land , the Evil Queen shows up , telling them about her failure to cast her curse because of Snow White and Prince Charming . Due to a deal between Hook and the Evil Queen , Smee goes to the New Enchanted Forest with Hook to obtain a magical flower to defeat Rumplestiltskin . Despite Hook obtaining it , Hook decides to stay in the new realm for a while as Smee returns home . Briefly , he gambles with the Evil Queen as they wait for Hook to return . When Hook decides to stay in the New Enchanted Forest , Smee is given the Jolly Roger and he offers a ride to the Evil Queen to escape the Wish Realm . Sometime later , Hook returns hoping to find Maui 's Fish Hook . Smee helps hook locate it , although they both are disturb with Captain Ahab 's presence , leading to a duel . Evil Queen N / A Lana Parrilla 7 Alive Lana Parrilla The Evil Queen is the former ruler of the Wish Realm . Before the Evil Queen got to cast her curse in the Wish Realm , she is defeated by Snow White and Prince Charming . She is unseated from the throne as Snow takes over as Queen and her magic is stripped off . With no where to turn too , she goes to Hook for help to secure a way out of the Wish Realm , making a deal with him to obtain some powerful magic in the New Enchanted Forest to defeat Rumplestiltskin . While Hook is away , she gambles with his crew and later finds out that he gave up on revenge , giving his ship to Smee . He then offers to free her from the Wish Realm , but she is eventually captured by the now Queen Snow and King David and banished from the Wish Realm for good , prevented from ever returning . Marcus Tremaine N / A Matty Finochio 7 Deceased Marcus Tremaine is the husband of Rapunzel Tremaine , father of Anastasia and Drizella , second husband of Cecelia , and step - father of Ella . Via his first marriage with Rapunzel , he gains two daughters . One day , he falls deadly ill , resulting in Rapunzel to make a deal secure his health . Due to the deal , Rapunzel is captured by Gothel and Marcus is led to believe that she is dead . Marcus eventually falls in love with Cecelia and gains a step - daughter via the second marriage . Six years since Rapunzel 's disappearance , she returns after escaping her captivity , with Marcus welcoming her back home . When Cecelia is cursed by Rapunzel and runs away to New Wonderland , Marcus follows after her to bring her back , but returns home empty - handed . During winter , while playing , Anastasia and Ella falls into thin ice , and Marcus saves Ella first , angering Rapunzel for not saving their daughter first . As Anastasia is in a deep coma , Rapunzel kills Marcus with the help of a Prince out of anger . Cecelia N / A Cindy Luna 7 Deceased Cecelia is the wife of Marcus Tremaine , mother of Ella , and step - mother of Anastasia and Drizella . After Rapunzel 's disappearance , Marcus falls in love with Cecelia and marries her , gifting her a locket which shows their power of love . Cecelia and her daughter , Ella , then moves into Marcus ' manor where she bonds and eventually gains the approval of his daughters . While Anastasia has hopes of Rapunzel 's return , Drizella warms up to Cecelia as her new mother . Following Rapunzel 's return , Cecelia tries to adjust her life to the new situation , however , she is cursed by a jealous Rapunzel after Drizella refers to her as mother . Forced to be separated from Marcus , Cecelia runs away to New Wonderland and ends up in the Infinite Maze , where she joins Alice in a tea party . One day , they were attacked by a Jabberwock and Cecelia gives up her life to kill it . Witch Dr. Andrea Sage Nisreen Slim 7 Deceased The Witch is a member of the Coven of the Eight . During her time in the New Enchanted Forest , the Witch is sought by Gothel , who recruits her into the Coven of the Eight . Together with the other members , they help Gothel free Drizella from her statue state . She then contributes in the casting of the Dark Curse by providing an ingredient . Once the curse is cast , she is sent to the Land Without Magic . In Hyperion Heights , she is Dr. Andrea Sage and works at the hospital of Seattle . After Lucy collapses , she is brought to Dr. Sage who tends to Lucy 's unconsciousness . After admitting Lucy , and with her condition not improving , Dr. Sage takes blood samples from Nick , Jacinda , and Henry for future usage . After the blood sample results are sent to her , she examines it in her office and notices that Henry is Lucy 's biological father . However , she finds that someone had poisoned her drink as she collapses onto the floor to her death . An unidentified person then cuts of a lock of her hair for unknown reasons . Detectives Weaver and Rogers learn of her connection to a cult that they 've been investigating as they also found her tattoo connected to the cult surgically - erased . Madame Leota N / A Suzy Joachim 7 Alive Madame Leota is a witch and a member of the Coven of the Eight . Stuck in a crystal ball , Madame Leota is found by Gothel who wishes to help free her . Tricking Robin , Gothel tries to use a resurrection amulet to free Leota , but fails after interruption from Zelena and Hook . Eventually , Leota is freed somehow and is lured into the Coven of the Eight . After Drizella is turned into stone , she and the other members of the Coven of the Eight band together to free Drizella . She later helps the Coven of the Eight to cast the curse by threatening Henry 's life by poisoning him in exchange for Regina 's blood . Prince Naveen Drew Jeff Pierre 7 Alive Prince Naveen is the brother of an unnamed Prince . After his brother died from an Alligator attack , Prince Naveen tracks the beast from Maldonia to the New Enchanted Forest . He teams up with Princess Tiana to kill it , but due to a misunderstanding , he is attacked by the Alligator . Once it 's dead , Tiana brings him to Dr. Facilier , who fixes Naveen but send some him someplace hard to reach until he can pay is debt . Eventually , Naveen is sent to the Land Without Magic after the Dark Curse is cast . In Hyperion Heights , he is known as Drew , a food truck operator . Blackmailed by Mr. Samdi , he reunites with Sabine , his old friend . When Sabine 's food truck is shut down by the Police Department due to a lack of a safety permit , Drew agrees to help her despite her believing that he was behind it . After the night is over , Drew confronts Mr. Samdi about his plan , but Mr. Samdi reveals that Sabine is an important part in his plan . Captain Ahab N / A Chad Rook 7 Unknown Captain Ahab is a pirate captain in the Wish Realm . During his time as a pirate , he acquires Maui 's Fish Hook , an enchanted talisman . Hook , after returning to the Wish Realm from the New Enchanted Forest , gambles with Ahab to get ahold of the item . Once Ahab loses , Hook gains possession of it , however , Ahab has doubts that Hook intends to use it for revenge . Following Hook to an underground prison , Ahab learns that Hook has gone soft and was willing to spare Rumplestiltskin . Ahab then offers another deal , a gun duel in brought daylight , an agreement that Hook agrees in order to defend his pride . During the duel , Ahab manages to shoot Hook , but he himself got shot too . As his First Mate tends to his injury , Hook steals Maui 's Fish Hook and escape the realm . Clayton N / A Cory Rempel 7 Alive Clayton is the leader of a mob . In the New Enchanted Forest , during a Troll attack , Clayton leads an angry mob of villagers to hunt for the Troll that have been tearing down villages . The attack was brutal , leaving many hurt , forcing Clayton to retreat to the nearest tavern to seek shelter for the injured villagers . As he tends to their injury , Robin Hood and Alice walks into the tavern , with the former wanting to hunt down the Troll , and the latter claiming the Troll is harmless . Thinking Alice is crazy , he orders his men to imprison both Robin and Alice while he lead another group of villagers after the Troll . As the mob gathers in the wood , Robin and Alice interrupts them . Clayton then orders the villagers to hunt then down , although the Troll is eventually defeated . Gretel N / A Sara Canning ( adult ) Lily van der Griend ( child ) 7 Deceased Gretel is the brother of Hansel and a witch . Living in the New Enchanted Forest , Gretel and her brother crosses paths with the Blind Witch in a gingerbread house . The Blind Witch tried to cook them both , but they narrowly escapes . The experience left Gretel thinking about her future and ways to protect herself , leading to magic for help . While Gretel learns candy - based magic , Hansel eventually leaves her to travel the realms with a new name . Years later , Gretel learns about the Coven of the Eight and wishes to join them . Along with other witches , Gretel compete in a test to find a golden flower to win a spot in the coven . However , during the test , she learns from Gothel that the real test requires her to kill the other witches . As she was accompanying Drizella during the test , Gretel attacks Drizella not knowing that Gothel had gone to her too . As the two fight , Drizella stabs Gretel to death enabling Drizella to pass the initiation . Black Beard N / A Charles Mesure 7 Alive Charles Mesure Black Beard is a pirate captain in the Wish Realm . ( This section is in - need of history ) N / A Chad Kip Pardue 7 Unknown Chad is the fiancè of Zelena . While Zelena was under the influence of the Dark Curse , Chad meets her counterpart , Kelly . The two falls in love and Chad eventually proposes to Kelly . Once Kelly regains her memories as Zelena , she reveals that she still indeed truly loves Chad . Ivo N / A Dan Payne 7 Unknown Dan Payne Ivo is an upcoming character .