No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original release date `` Wolferton Splash '' Stephen Daldry Peter Morgan November 4 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 04 ) In November 1947 , Prince Philip of Greece and Denmark renounces his royal titles in order to marry Princess Elizabeth , King George VI 's elder daughter and heiress presumptive . The newlyweds move to Malta , where Philip returns to the Royal Navy and Elizabeth gives birth to her son Charles and her daughter Anne . In 1951 , the couple returns to London when King George undergoes surgery for lung cancer . After being told that he has months to live , the King counsels Philip on how to further assist Elizabeth when she becomes the new sovereign . Meanwhile , former Conservative Prime Minister Winston Churchill and his wife Clementine return to Downing Street following six years of a Labour Party government . `` Hyde Park Corner '' Stephen Daldry Peter Morgan November 4 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 04 ) In 1952 , with King George still in ill health , Elizabeth and Philip tour the Commonwealth in his place . While the couple is on safari in Kenya , the King is found dead in his bed . His wife Queen Elizabeth , younger daughter Margaret , and widowed mother Queen Mary mourn as news of George 's sudden passing spreads via radio to the rest of the world . Philip breaks the news to Elizabeth , who returns to the United Kingdom as Queen and reunites with her family in their grief . `` Windsor '' Philip Martin Peter Morgan November 4 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 04 ) In February 1952 , as the Royal Family prepares for King George 's funeral , Elizabeth 's uncle Edward , Duke of Windsor , who has been living in Paris with Wallis Simpson since his abdication in 1936 , arrives in the United Kingdom , causing the Queen Mother and Queen Mary to reopen old wounds surrounding his choice of wife . Elizabeth meets with Churchill to discuss Philip 's requests that his family keep the name Mountbatten and live at Clarence House rather than move into Buckingham Palace . The Prime Minister displays a reluctance to bend to either request , but Elizabeth later drops them after receiving counsel from Edward . Churchill later informs Elizabeth the date for her coronation has been set for the following year , which she recognizes as an attempt to secure his position against his own party , who are eager for Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden to replace him . `` Act of God '' Julian Jarrold Peter Morgan November 4 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 04 ) In December 1952 , as a great smog affects London and kills thousands , Elizabeth 's advisors pressure her to ask Churchill , who referred to the event as an `` act of God , '' to step down . While initially reluctant to do so , the Queen summons him for a private audience after he comes under fire from the Opposition and refuses to discuss the smog at a Cabinet meeting . Before the meeting , Churchill 's eyes are finally opened to the smog 's effects when his beloved secretary , Venetia Scott , is killed by a double - decker bus . He makes an impassioned speech outside the hospital where Venetia 's body is being held , promising a longer - term approach to preventing future smog . His speech prompts Elizabeth to change her mind when the smog clears moments before their audience takes place . Philip begins flying lessons from Royal Air Force Group Captain Peter Townsend , who is having a clandestine relationship with Margaret . 5 5 `` Smoke and Mirrors '' Philip Martin Peter Morgan November 4 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 04 ) Following Queen Mary 's death in March 1953 , the visiting Duke of Windsor clashes with Elizabeth 's Private Secretary Tommy Lascelles after being asked not to attend Elizabeth 's coronation and learning that Wallis will not be receiving an invitation . Elizabeth places Philip in charge of coronation preparations only to regret her decision when he upsets her with a request that he forego kneeling to pay homage when she is being crowned and antagonizes the committee with his insistence that the event should be televised . On June 2 , Elizabeth is crowned at Westminster Abbey while Edward and Wallis view the coronation from their villa in Paris and spitefully mock the new Queen . 6 6 `` Gelignite '' Julian Jarrold Peter Morgan November 4 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 04 ) When Margaret and Townsend ask for Elizabeth 's permission to marry , the Queen promises to give her support while Lascelles and the Queen Mother advise against it . As a local newspaper publishes an article about the relationship , Elizabeth changes her mind after learning that the Royal Marriages Act of 1772 prohibits Margaret from marrying without permission until she turns twenty - five . Elizabeth and Philip take Townsend , who is set to be posted to Brussels , with them on a trip to Northern Ireland , but his popularity causes Lascelles to recommend that he be posted to Brussels sooner than promised , causing a lasting rift between the two sisters . 7 7 `` Scientia Potentia Est '' Benjamin Caron Peter Morgan November 4 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 04 ) In August 1953 , Churchill urges an international summit with American President Dwight D. Eisenhower in response to the Soviet Union testing their first thermonuclear weapon . At the last minute , Churchill falls victim to a stroke which inhibits his ability to govern , prompting conservative Lord Salisbury to try and keep his ailment secret . Meanwhile , Elizabeth contemplates whether to replace the retiring Lascelles with senior deputy Michael Adeane or with her preferred choice Martin Charteris . She later engages a private tutor to improve her knowledge of science and related subjects , which helps her gain enough courage to dress down Churchill and Salisbury for lying to her . 8 8 `` Pride & Joy '' Philip Martin Peter Morgan November 4 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 04 ) With Elizabeth and Philip on a stressful tour of the Commonwealth , Margaret takes on more royal engagements while the Queen Mother goes to Scotland to reflect on her new position and buys a castle . Philip , meanwhile , grows frustrated over Elizabeth using him as a prop and the couple have a heated argument that is recorded by photographers . While Elizabeth convinces the photographers to hand over the recording , she and Phillip remain unable to resolve the argument and realize they must pretend to have a stable relationship for the public 's sake . Churchill visits Margaret and , after explaining that the general public does n't want someone with passion or personality , tells her she will no longer be taking on royal engagements . 9 9 `` Assassins '' Benjamin Caron Peter Morgan November 4 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 04 ) Philip begins spending more time out of the house while Elizabeth begins spending more time with her horse racing manager and friend Lord `` Porchey '' Porchester . The tension escalates after Elizabeth has a direct line put in for Porchey to call Buckingham Palace and culminates in a heated confrontation . Elizabeth later tells Philip that , to the disappointment of many , he is the only man she has ever loved . He , in turn , silently mouths an apology after she makes a moving speech at Churchill 's eightieth birthday dinner . Meanwhile , Graham Sutherland paints a portrait of Churchill as a birthday gift from Parliament . The Prime Minister , however , hates its accuracy and , after a heated confrontation with Sutherland , admits his pain at what aging has done to him . The portrait is later destroyed on secret instructions from Clementine . 10 10 `` Gloriana '' Philip Martin Peter Morgan November 4 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 04 ) In 1956 , Elizabeth finds herself torn when the public approves and officials from both Parliament and the Church of England disapprove of Margaret 's relationship with Townsend . As Elizabeth tries to persuade Margaret against the relationship , the Queen Mother starts complaining about Philip 's domineering attitude towards Charles . At the suggestion of both Lascelles and the Queen Mother , Elizabeth asks Philip to open the Summer Olympics in Melbourne so he can adjust to life in her shadow . A five - month royal tour onboard the newly commissioned HMY Britannia is later added to Philip 's itinerary , to which Elizabeth responds by suggesting that he be thankful everyone is helping him find a public role . Meanwhile , Eden replaces Churchill as Prime Minister and becomes trapped in a escalating dispute with Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser over rights to the Suez Canal .