Term Definition Capitalism A social - economic system in which the means of production ( machines , tools , factories , etc . ) are under private ownership and their use is for profit . Communism A social - economic system in which means of production are commonly owned ( either by the people directly , through the commune or by communist society ) , and production is undertaken for use , rather than for profit . Communist society is thus stateless , classless , moneyless , and democratic . Distributism A social - economic system in which widespread property ownership as fundamental right ; the means of production are spread as widely as possible rather than being centralized under the control of the state ( state socialism ) , a few individuals ( plutocracy ) , or corporations ( corporatocracy ) . Distributism fundamentally opposes socialism and capitalism , which distributists view as equally flawed and exploitative . In contrast , distributism seeks to subordinate economic activity to human life as a whole , to our spiritual life , our intellectual life , our family life `` . Feudalism A social - economic system of land ownership and duties . Under feudalism , all the land in a kingdom was the king 's . However , the king would give some of the land to the lords or nobles who fought for him . These presents of land were called manors . Then the nobles gave some of their land to vassals . The vassals then had to do duties for the nobles . The lands of vassals were called fiefs . Socialism A social - economic system in which workers , democratically and socially own the means of production and the economic framework may be decentralized , distributed or centralized planned or self - managed in autonomous economic units . Public services would be commonly , collectively , or state owned , such as healthcare and education . Statism A social - economic system that concentrates power in the state at the expense of individual freedom . Among other variants , the term subsumes theocracy , absolute monarchy , Nazism , fascism , authoritarian socialism , and plain , unadorned dictatorship . Such variants differ on matters of form , tactics and ideology . Welfare state A social - economic system in which the state plays a key role in the protection and promotion of the economic and social well - being of its citizens . It is based on the principles of equality of opportunity , equitable distribution of wealth , and public responsibility for those unable to avail themselves of the minimal provisions for a good life .