No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) 21 `` Family '' Mark Beesley Mark Verheiden February 25 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 25 ) 0.225 After the Necronomicon is once again found and read , evil makes a return to Elk Grove . Ash reunites with Candace Barr , a former lover with whom he had a daughter , Brandy . Ash , Pablo and Candace rush to Kenward County High School in search of Brandy , who is being hunted down by evil . They find Brandy and her friend Rachel in the music classroom , but a possessed Rachel then attacks and manages to decapitate Candace . Ash kills Rachel and then battles the possessed school mascot , Cougie , but Kelly , along with Dalton , a Knight of Sumeria , arrive and save Ash . Ruby , after retrieving the Necronomicon , performs a ritual , smearing her blood over a drawing of Ash and drinking it , causing her to be impregnated . 22 `` Booth Three '' Mark Beesley Rob Fresco March 4 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 04 ) 0.171 While driving on the road , Ruby is forced to stop to give birth to her new demonic spawn , which she claims to be modeled after Ash 's image . She kidnaps Natalie , a Norwegian woman and uses her partner 's corpse as food to feed the spawn . Ash takes Brandy to school , where she meets up with Ruby , who is disguised as the school 's guidance counselor , Ms. Prevett . Ruby attempts to persuade her in distrusting Ash . Pablo is visited by a female spirit who warns him of evil taking over his body , and that he must embrace his destiny as the next Brujo . Dalton notices the Sumerian writing on Pablo 's body , and attempts to convince Kelly that he must be killed to prevent future risks . Ash later goes to the local sperm bank to investigate whether his sperm had been used , but Ruby summons evil to the bank to destroy his seeds . Ash manages to prevail , but realizes that he must now protect Brandy at all cost . 23 `` Apparently Dead '' Diego & Andres Meza - Valdes Ivan Raimi March 11 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 11 ) 0.160 While Ash is attending Candace 's funeral , she becomes possessed and fights him . Brandy 's distrust for Ash grows further . Ash , upon discovering Ruby 's involvement , informs the gang to find the Kandarian dagger . Pablo receives another vision from the female spirit , pointing them toward the cabin . Pablo , Kelly and Dalton return to the cabin and start digging through the remains ; eventually Kelly finds the knife , but evil then comes after them and impales Dalton through a tree branch . He quickly turns Deadite and demands the knife , but Pablo attempts to run him over with a truck . Ruby goes to the cemetery and resurrects Brock , who then returns to his home and meets Brandy . Later , Ash returns and has a fight with Brock , ending with the latter being killed right in front of Brandy . 24 `` Unfinished Business '' Daniel Nettheim Nicki Paluga March 18 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 18 ) 0.176 Ash is visited by the ghost of the real Brock , who shows him a vision of the past in 2012 when he was visited by a Knight of Sumeria , who carried the missing pages of the Necronomicon . Brock incapacitated the knight and locked him under the hardware store 's cellar after thinking he was dead . Back in present day , Ash enters the cellar and finds the knight 's skeleton , as well as Sumerian writing on the wall . Ruby is contacted by the sorceress Kaya , who is imprisoned in the netherworld ; the latter warns her of the inevitable prophecy and the opening of the rift to the Netherworld . She travels to the cabin and finds Dalton , who she temporarily revives in order to learn of what he knew . Dalton reveals to Ruby of their finding of the dagger , but then shoots himself in the head to prevent himself from turning once more . Kelly returns to Ash 's home and finds Brandy , who she attempts to convince to stay . They are however attacked by Pablo , who has been possessed ; in the ensuing struggle , Pablo bites Kelly in her leg and infects her . The two girls retreat to Ash 's trailer and barricade themselves in , but Kelly 's infection worsens and mutates further . Ash arrives at Ruby 's hideout , where he finds Natalie and Ruby 's spawn , who has grown considerably . Ash tries to break Natalie free , but ends up waking the spawn from his sleep . 25 5 `` Baby Proof '' Daniel Nettheim Luke Kalteaux March 25 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 25 ) 0.179 Pablo manages to enter the trailer , but Brandy stabs him with the Kandarian dagger . He then finds himself in a realm between life and death , where he meets the Brujo , who explains that Pablo must now perform a ritual to return to life and succeed him . He successfully completes the ritual and comes back to life , but then runs off to find Ash . Kelly determines to make Ruby pay for what she 's done . Meanwhile , at Ruby 's hideout , Ash realizes that her spawn is made in his image , and attempts to capture him to prove his story to Brandy . The spawn goes on the loose , and kills Natalie . It attempts to manipulate her corpse to fight Ash but eventually Ash traps it inside . He then takes the spawn to the hardware store , but it manages to consume Natalie 's corpse and free himself . He attempts to explain the situation to Brandy and a local police officer , but fails . However , Brandy chooses to believe her father and runs off together with him , leaving the spawn in Ruby 's possession once more . 26 6 `` Tales from the Rift '' Regan Hall Aaron Lam April 1 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 01 ) 0.196 Ash is contacted by a group of Knights of Sumeria , who he then takes to his hardware store to investigate the Sumerian writing . They deduce that the Knight who died in the cellar , Gary , had figured out a way to open the rift to the Netherworld . Pablo arrives at the store and is able to decipher the text , opening the rift . One of the Knights , Marcus , travels through the rift for reconnaissance , but comes back a Deadite and slaughters the rest of the Knights except one . Ash manages to take down the Deadite , then instructs Pablo to find out how to close down the rift for good . Kelly goes to Ruby 's hideout with the dagger , intending to kill her ; Ruby overpowers Kelly , however , and kills her . She then uses Kelly 's body as a vessel for the sorceress Kaya . Ash returns home later that night and receives the dagger from `` Kelly '' . 27 7 `` Twist and Shout '' Mark Beesley Caitlin Meares April 8 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 08 ) TBD 28 8 `` Rifting Apart '' Mark Beesley Bryan Hill April 15 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 15 ) TBD 29 9 `` Judgement Day '' Rick Jacobson Rick Jacobson April 22 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 22 ) TBD 30 10 `` The Mettle of Man '' Rick Jacobson Rick Jacobson April 29 , 2018 ( 2018 - 04 - 29 ) TBD