Paramedic Leslie Shay ( season 1 -- 2 ) was Gabby Dawson 's partner at Ambulance 61 and the designated driver . An experienced paramedic , she was well - liked by the mostly male crew of 51 and was frequently seen joking and horseplaying with them in the lounge during downtime . She and Kelly Severide share an apartment as roommates and are best friends . Shay is openly gay , often cracking self - deprecating jokes about it , and is entangled in a relationship with her ex-lover Clarice who was most recently married to and impregnated by a man . She is fiercely loyal to her friends , particularly to Kelly , for whom she has risked her job for several times . Towards the end of season 1 and season 2 she tries to have a baby through artificial insemination with Kelly but the process fails . She is also close with Dawson , but a rift comes between them when Dawson fails to be there for her during her downward spiral of guilt over a man 's suicide . She then gets mixed up with a girl she met , Devon , who she really liked , but that all ended when Devon robbed Shay and her roommates , Severide and Otis . Shay disappears and Severide tries to look for her . He asks for Dawson 's help and when Dawson finds her they rekindle their friendship and Shay goes back to Firehouse 51 . An accident in the cliffhanger season finale of season two leaves Shay critically injured in the explosion of a building and she dies in the third - season premiere `` Always '' . Her death affected the entire firehouse as she was popular with everyone and well - liked by the mostly - male crew . The subsequent investigation and Severide 's own observations reveal that Shay had been murdered . Chicago PD detectives later linked the fire with a string of unsolved arson cases dating back several decades . The investigation proved that the arsonist and murderer of Shay was Trenton Lamont under the aliases of Adrian Gish and Ross Mcgowan . Shay was avenged for good when Lamont was later shot and killed by Chicago PD detective Antonio Dawson .