Nick Huntley is interviewed regarding his movements on the night of Ifield 's murder . AC - 12 realise it is consistent with the few CCTV recordings and witness testimonies they have , but struggle to find any evidence to implicate Roz . Jamie has transferred to ACC Hilton 's team and is thus in conflict with AC - 12 , further complicated by the fact his partner is Arnott 's ex-girlfriend . Roz leads them to Nick 's tampered jumper , which allows Polk Avenue to formally charge him with Ifield 's murder , as well as the previous crimes attributed to Balaclava Man . Nick asks Lakewell to get AC - 12 involved , but he declines . Roz also asks Jodie to analyse some telecoms on the quiet . Arnott realises Ifield 's killer stole a tracksuit , as his or her clothes were covered in blood , and then would probably have changed clothes again when they got home before hiding both . They try to narrow their search to a specific time and area , managing to find a three - hour window shortly after Ifield 's murder , and are able to spot Roz driving towards a large area of woodland . They also discover the MRSA that infected Roz 's wound is likely to be traceable in Ifield 's balaclava . Arnott works out the time taken for Roz to drive to and from the area would have only given her a few minutes to hide the evidence . They find out she led a previous search of the area and that she hid her own incriminating evidence in the same place . Roz is subsequently arrested for Ifield 's murder and requests Lakewell as her solicitor . After being interrogated and facing damning evidence against her , Roz admits to Ifield 's accidental death in self - defence and to framing Nick . Just as the interview appears to be concluding , Roz arrests Lakewell for perverting the course of justice . It is revealed that Lakewell , whom Nick rang immediately when Arnott was approaching his office , tipped off ACC Hilton using a ' burner ' phone , and Hilton tipped off the man who attacked Arnott . Roz is able to prove Hilton 's involvement as he gave her his number when attempting to seduce her . Hastings and Fleming head to Hilton 's office , but Jamie has tipped him off and he has already gone by the time they arrive . Jamie attempts to leave with Lakewell , but Arnott and Roz stop him , saying he has probably been set up to be murdered . Hastings and Fleming return but one of the balaclava men ( Lakewell admits there are many ) holds a security guard at gunpoint . Hastings promptly shoots him . When they get upstairs , Jamie has pulled a gun on Arnott . However , Hastings and Arnott are able to persuade him to drop his firearm . Hilton is found dead the next day , ruled as a suicide but at the same location as a murder relating to the Sands View child - molestation ring . As the dust settles on this particular case , Hastings , seemingly no closer to untangling the bigger conspiracy , admits he thinks this has become a life 's job . The epilogue reveals Roz was sentenced to ten years for Ifield 's manslaughter and the subsequent cover - up . She and Nick remain married . Lakewell pleaded guilty to perverting the course of justice , but declined witness protection and refused to testify . Michael Farmer was released without charge , and the Regulation 15 order against Hastings was dropped . Hastings remains in charge of AC - 12 .