Directly related to maintaining the health of the human population is water supply , and it is one of the resources that experience the biggest strain . With the global population at about 7.5 billion , and each human theoretically needing 2 liters of drinking water , there is a demand for 15 billion liters of water each day to meet the minimum requirement for healthy living ( United ) . Weather patterns , elevation , and climate all contribute to uneven distribution of fresh drinking water . Without clean water , good health is not a viable option . Besides drinking , water is used to create sanitary living conditions and is the basis of creating a healthy environment fit to hold human life . In addition to drinking water , water is also used for bathing , washing clothes and dishes , flushing toilets , a variety of cleaning methods , recreation , watering lawns , and farm irrigation . Irrigation poses one of the largest problems , because without sufficient water to irrigate crops , the crops die and then there is the problem of food rations and starvation . In addition to water needed for crops and food , there is limited land area dedicated to food production , and not much more that is suitable to be added . Arable land , needed to sustain the growing population , is also a factor because land being under or over cultivated easily upsets the delicate balance of nutrition supply . There are also problems with location of arable land with regard to proximity to countries and relative population ( Bashford 240 ) . Access to nutrition is an important limiting factor in population sustainability and growth . No increase in arable land added to the still increasing human population will eventually pose a serious conflict . Only 38 % of the land area of the globe is dedicated to agriculture , and there is not room for much more . Although plants produce 54 billion metric tons of carbohydrates per year , when the population is expected to grow to 9 billion by 2050 , the plants may not be able to keep up ( Biello ) . Food supply is a primary example of how a resource reacts when its carrying capacity is exceeded . By trying to grow more and more crops off of the same amount of land , the soil becomes exhausted . Because the soil is exhausted , it is then unable to produce the same amount of food as before , and is overall less productive . Therefore , by using resources beyond a sustainable level , the resource become nullified and ineffective , which further increases the disparity between the demand for a resource and the availability of a resource . There must be a shift to provide adequate recovery time to each one of the supplies in demand to support contemporary human lifestyles .