Child support . A spouse is responsible for contributing towards support of a child and possibly the other spouse if he / she is a biological or adoptive parent , or has contributed to support of the child for at least one year during the `` marriage - like relationship '' with the child 's parent and the parent applies to the court for continuing support after separation and within one year of the last support contribution . ( The contribution towards child support expected from a non-parent is not as great as from a parent . ) Financial support and division of property and debts after separation . If the `` marriage - like relationship '' has continued for two years , the laws that apply upon separation are the same as those that apply to married couples , according to the `` Estate Administration Act '' . All property and debts acquired prior to the relationship are exempt . If no agreement between the partners about property and / or debts is written during or after the relationship , then the law specifies equal sharing of all acquired during the relationship , as well as any changes in the value of those brought into the relationship . ( There is an exemption from equal sharing for certain categories , such as gifts and inheritances received by one spouse . ) The degree of participation of each spouse in the acquisition of property or debt does not affect the sharing . Financial support may also be requested from the former spouse . A claim for financial support or the division of property and debt must be made within two years of the date of separation . Inheritance . A spouse is eligible for inheritance if the `` marriage - like relationship '' has existed for at least two years immediately prior to the death of the other spouse . All property and debts held in common are fully inherited automatically by the surviving spouse . Those brought into the relationship are subject to any existing valid will , which may be vulnerable to challenge if it does not provide for the surviving spouse and any children . Benefits from government programs . Access to benefits from government programs or policies can become more ( or less ) available upon becoming an unmarried spouse . In general , these become similar or identical to those of married couples , but the criteria for qualifying as unmarried spouses , such as longevity of the relationship , differ for the various programs . Social assistance is often immediately reduced when there is perceived to be a `` spouse in the house '' , regardless of the nature of the relationship .