The twelfth and final book in the How to Train Your Dragon series . Hiccup wakes up on the beach at Hero 's End with the Wodensfang , Hogfly ... and amnesia sustained when he hit his head on the mast of the boat at the end of the previous book . The Wodensfang tries to explain who Hiccup is , but before they can they are attacked by Sharkworms and the Vampire Spydragon from the previous book . After defeating the dragons , Hiccup takes a boat which has washed up on the beach and sails towards Tomorrow . Fishlegs , Camicazi , and the Triple - Headed Deadly Shadow Dragon try and rescue Hiccup , but he attacks them because he does n't know who they are and the Wodensfang is asleep from a poison dart . Once Hiccup reaches Tomorrow , he is captured by the Dragon Guardians of Tomorrow who attempt to kill by performing Death by Airy Oblivion , but halfway up realize that they have made a mistake and Hiccup should not be killed , and so drop him in the swamp . Hiccup crawls out of the swamp and enters Grimbeard the Ghastly 's castle just as Alvin is about to be crowned king by the Druid Guardian . At this point , Hiccup regains his memory and gives a speech convincing the Druid Guardian to crown him king instead . Hiccup is crowned and prepares to engage the Dragon Furious in single combat . The Druid Guardian tells Hiccup the secret of the Dragon Jewel : that it contains two tiny dragons which are carrying a deadly virus that can wipe out dragonkind if the jewel is cracked . However , Hiccup 's jewel does n't have the dragons , meaning that it is a fake . This means that Hiccup will have to defeat the Dragon Furious with might alone . Hiccup rides the Windwalker , accompanied by Toothless and the Wodensfang , into battle and is knocked off the Windwalker 's back by Furious . As Furious prepares to kill Hiccup , Hiccup remembers a speech Furious gave at the beginning of battle , where he talks about how Hiccup was the new Grimbeard and would be a cruel king . Furious cites how Hiccup has the king 's things and the lobster necklace , which Fishlegs gave him for luck . Hiccup deduces that the necklace was also Grimbeards , and so gets Toothless to crack open the necklace with his jaws , revealing the real Dragon Jewel . Hiccup threatens Furious with the jewel and talks to him , reaching a peace agreement . Once the agreement has been reached , Hiccup throws the jewel into the sea . However , before the agreement can be made , Alvin and the Witch attack Furious , thus violating the laws of single combat . Furious gets the dragon army to attack and so soon there is an all - out Vikings vs. Dragons battle . Meanwhile , Camicazi and Fishlegs capture and detain Alvin , who reveals that he found the necklace in Grimbeard 's tomb and gave it to a princess as a present while masquerading as a fisherman , which means that Alvin is Fishlegs ' father . After telling this , Alvin prepares to kill Fishlegs before the Dragon Guardians intervene and kill him . Hiccup convinces Furious to call off the attack once more and are once again about to reach a peace agreement when the Witch attacks Hiccup with the Stormblade . Furious intervenes and kills the Witch , then completes the treaty and makes himself and Hiccup blood brothers . However , the Stormblade was poisoned and so Furious leaves his command of the dragons to Luna , his second - in - command , and goes out to sea to die . The epilogue shows how Hiccup built a new kingdom of harmony on Tomorrow where humans and dragons could live in peace , but also had humans domesticate horses and hawks so that he can fulfill his promise which stated that if humans did n't change by the time he died , dragons would have to go into hibernation . Hiccup also instructed Fishlegs to perpetuate that the whole story was just a myth .