Gavin Shipman ( Mathew Horne ) - Gavin is 28 when the series starts . He is an only child , and when the series starts he still lives with his loving mother and father in Billericay , Essex . He gets on well with his parents . He works for a company called ICB and spends his spare time with his best friend Smithy ( James Corden ) along with his other friends Gary & Simon , Dirtbox , Fingers , Budgie , Swede , Chinese Alan and Jesus . He is a big fan of Tottenham Hotspur ( as is Mathew Horne ) and is often seen wearing his Spurs shirt . In the course of his job , he had to deal with a company called Bedmores , based in Barry . The Bedmores representative he had to correspond with was a woman called Stacey West ( Joanna Page ) . Gavin and Stacey had to speak regularly because of their jobs , and they found they got on very well . After months and months of talking and flirting , they agreed to meet up in London . They agreed that Gavin would bring his best friend Smithy with him , and Stacey would bring her best friend Nessa ( Ruth Jones ) with her . They met up and went clubbing . They had a great time , and got on very well . They went back to Stacey 's hotel room and had sex . The next day , Stacey had to go back to Barry , but she and Gavin promised to keep ringing each other and that this would not be the end of their relationship . While Stacey and Nessa boarded the coach back to Barry , Gavin and Smithy got a cab back to Billericay . Without waiting for Smithy , Gavin jumped in his car and drove all the way to Barry , and met Stacey when her coach pulled into the station , to her surprise . He and Stacey told each other they loved each other for the first time . Within 9 weeks , they had got engaged and married . Despite a few initial problems regarding Stacey being homesick , their relationship was successful , and Stacey became eventually pregnant . Gavin , and his father Mick ( Larry Lamb ) , often play the `` straight men '' in the series . Much of the comedy comes from the actions of those around them ( especially his mother Pam ( Alison Steadman ) and Smithy ) . It is clear that Gavin loves his friends and family very much . Despite the fact that his mother Pam often overreacts and acts without thinking , Gavin still loves her , despite being occasionally exasperated by her . His best friend Smithy is also prone to overreact , but Gavin sticks with him and loves him like a little brother . Gavin 's main personality flaw is that he is slightly spoiled , possibly due to being an only child , and reacts with irritation when he does n't get his way . He is also not particularly sensitive - he sometimes fails to understand the much more emotional Smithy and Stacey , and this occasionally puts strain on his relationship with both of them - when Stacey , who is very attached to her hometown of Barry , gets depressed and homesick upon moving to Billericay after she and Gavin marry , Gavin is more confused than concerned about this , and his responses are lacking in sensitivity about the matter . This can also be seen in the fact that Gavin is less talkative and expressive than Stacey is - while at dinner with their families after their honeymoon , Stacey is excited and full of conversation , while Gavin simply sits and listens to her . Despite all of this , Gavin loves Stacey enormously , and is very affectionate towards her , and his greatest display of love for her is when he decides to move to Barry with her despite having expressed a dislike of it previously , and he manages to get himself a new job in Wales so he can reside there . There , his boss Huw Davies and colleague Owain Hughes ( Steven Meo ) act very similar to Stacey 's uncle , Bryn ( Rob Brydon ) , talking incessantly and being over-friendly , personality traits that bewilder Gavin . Gavin is more reserved and less willing to discuss his private life than his wife . He finds it odd that Stacey is so eager and ready to spill information about their private life to Nessa , Bryn , her mother Gwen ( Melanie Walters ) and her brother Jason ( Robert Wilfort ) . When Gavin is applying for a job in Cardiff , the only people who know are Stacey and Mick . When he and Stacey announce it to the rest of the characters , Gwen announces that she knew as well , because Stacey told her . Gavin is annoyed that Stacey told Gwen , and by the fact that Stacey did not tell him she had told Gwen . He does n't understand why Stacey always has to be so close to her family . It is n't that he is distant from his family , he just does n't depend on his as much as Stacey does hers . In Series 3 , he agrees with Stacey to try to have a baby , only to discover she stopped taking the pill a year ago . Although he is very angry about Stacey not telling him the truth , he becomes much more depressed when he learns that he has fertility problems . However , he eventually comes round , and has a serious discussion with Stacey about the problem , deciding they will carry on trying to conceive for a few months , and if that does n't work , they should start looking at alternatives . However , in the final episode , Stacey discovers she pregnant , and Gavin is completely as overjoyed .