Tina Pinciotti ( played by Amanda Fuller ) was the younger sister of regular Donna Pinciotti . She first appeared in `` Eric 's Burger Job '' , but made no appearances following that , except for a brief mention in the episode `` Vanstock '' . A similar situation occurred with unseen Valerie Pinciotti . The two are later written out with no explanation , as demonstrated in the season seven premiere , when Kitty refers to Donna as Bob and Midge 's only daughter Valerie Pinciotti was the older sister of Donna Pinciotti and Tina Pinciotti , who in `` Eric 's Birthday '' was said to be away at college but never mentioned again . Matthew and Rebecca Erdman ( played by Kevin Farley and Shannon Holt ) were the prudish host parents of Fez . They first appeared in `` Drive - In '' and convince Fez the rock they detest is diabolical by playing KISS album backwards . Fez 's host parents make no further appearances in the show . Buddy Morgan ( played by Joseph Gordon - Levitt ) was introduced in `` Eric 's Buddy '' , and was intended to become a recurring character . However , the introduction of homosexual Buddy as a love interest for Eric ( at a time when both Eric and Hyde were competing for Donna ) did not go over well with audiences , and Buddy was cut from the show . Melissa ( played by Reagan Gomez - Preston ) appeared in `` Hyde Gets the Girl '' as a potential love interest for Hyde . She was intended to become his on - off girlfriend . Patty ( played by Lindsay Sloane ) appeared in two episodes in the series ' second season . She is introduced in `` Eric Gets Suspended '' along with her best friend , Mary ( played by Melissa Joan Hart ) . The two go on a double blind date with Hyde and Fez . Hyde initially pairs with Mary , and Fez with Patty ; but in the course of the date Hyde tells Fez to swap dates because he is hitting it off with Patty . Patty then returned in `` Eric and Kitty 's Night Out '' . In the episode , Fez and Patty become boyfriend and girlfriend . Patty 's role and impact in the episode implies an intention to continue the character 's appearance in the series . However , with no explanation in the show Patty is not seen or mentioned again .