No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) 134 `` Hyperion Heights '' Ralph Hemecker Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz October 6 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 06 ) 3.26 In a flashback , an 18 - year - old Henry says goodbye to Regina as he departs Storybrooke on a trip to new realms , in hopes of finding his own story . Many years later , Henry runs into Cinderella 's carriage in the New Enchanted Forest and after a string of events that almost get them captured at a ball , he offers her the chance at a new start back in Storybrooke , as he is due to return through a portal that evening . When Henry finds a glass slipper left for him at their meeting spot , he decides to stay behind . In present - day Seattle , an older Henry is reunited with his daughter Lucy , whom he does not remember because of a curse . In hopes of breaking it , Lucy leads him to her neighborhood of Hyperion Heights , home to many other cursed fairytale characters including Jacinda , Lucy 's down - on - her - luck single mother who is in a contentious relationship with her powerful stepmother Victoria . Others include Roni , a bar owner who is struggling with having to sell her establishment to Victoria , and Rogers , a cop who gets promoted to a detective and is introduced to his new partner , Weaver . 135 `` A Pirate 's Life '' Tara Nicole Weyr Jane Espenson & Jerome Schwartz October 13 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 13 ) 2.74 In flashback to Storybrooke , Hook is training an 18 year old Henry as Emma watches on . She confesses to Hook that she worries Henry is about to leave on his own . In order to comfort her , Hook shows her a bottle Henry can use to call on them if he gets into trouble . Many years later , as Henry is about to be captured by Lady Tremaine , he uses the bottle to call on Emma , Hook , and Regina for help . In the present , Victoria hires Rogers and Weaver to drive Henry out of the neighborhood . Rogers does not agree with Weaver 's methods and helps Henry instead . Rogers , Henry , and Roni end up forming an alliance against Victoria . Meanwhile , Jacinda has to find another way to be at Lucy 's ballet recital after Victoria makes things difficult for her . 136 `` The Garden of Forking Paths '' Ron Underwood David H. Goodman & Brigitte Hales October 20 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 20 ) 2.49 In a flashback , Cinderella arrives at the spot in the forest where she is supposed to meet Henry , but does not find him there . She then meets Princess Tiana , who recruits her to be part of the resistance against Lady Tremaine . She leaves one of her glass slippers behind for Henry to find . A short while later , Henry , Regina , and Hook arrive at their campsite and join the efforts . Later , Cinderella sneaks into Tremaine 's castle alone , where Tremaine reveals that she has kept her almost - deceased daughter Anastasia preserved since her `` death '' at age 14 and needs a pure heart to revive her . She tasks Cinderella with stealing Henry 's , since he has the heart of the truest believer . In the present day , Jacinda tries to save Lucy 's beloved community garden from Victoria , while Lucy takes a skeptical Henry on a trip under the garden lot in hopes of finding proof of everyone 's fairytale pasts . Meanwhile , Henry , Roni , and Rogers find their first lead against Victoria . Rogers captures the man working with her , but is irritated to find Weaver setting the man free to use him as a future connection . Also , it is revealed that Victoria is not cursed and has been keeping a witch as her prisoner at the top of Belfrey Towers . 137 `` Beauty '' Mick Garris Dana Horgan & Leah Fong October 27 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 27 ) 2.44 This episode 's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed . Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise . ( December 2017 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) In a flashback to Gideon 's first birthday , Rumple and Belle decide to leave Storybrooke to travel the world . Years later , Rumple tells Belle that he wants to stop being the Dark One so he can be mortal again and live out one single life with her . Over the years , they search for ways to get rid of his darkness . When Gideon is 18 , Belle comes across a prophecy that leads them to the Edge of Realms , where they must wait for the sun 's brightest set before they can be guided to the path Rumple must take to get rid of the Darkness . They build a home there as they wait for the event to occur . However , an aging Belle eventually admits that the `` sun '' of which the prophecy spoke was actually herself and that her death will mark the start of his journey . When Belle dies , Rumple sets off to search for a Guardian who will be able to take the Darkness from him so that he can ultimately be reunited with Belle . In the present day , Tilly , who is actually Alice , begins to wake up from the curse after she stops taking pills given to her by Victoria . In her new state of clarity , she tries to get Weaver to remember his true identity . Meanwhile , Ivy is tasked with taking Lucy trick - or - treating and loses her in the streets . She ends up bonding with Henry and defies her mother to give Jacinda and Lucy time together . 138 5 `` Greenbacks '' Geofrey Hildrew Christopher Hollier & Adam Karp November 3 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 03 ) 2.29 In the flashbacks , Tiana seeks a prince to help save her kingdom and is guided by Dr. Facilier to a man named Robert . She soon realizes that Facilier had enlisted Robert to steal a magical ruby from her in exchange for reuniting him with his lover who had been turned into a frog . In the present day , Tiana decides to run a pop - up beignet shop out of Mr. Cluck 's with Jacinda 's help . Victoria sends someone to burn the place down , which then causes friction between the two roommates. Rogers comes across a detainee at the police station who he thinks is connected to Eloise Gardener , the missing girl he 's trying to find . Meanwhile , Roni decides to investigate Ivy 's interest in helping Henry . Ivy takes her to the top of the towers and Roni finds a photo of herself and a young Henry taken in Storybrooke . However , it is later revealed that Ivy has n't been cursed either and has her own dealings with the witch of which her mother is unaware . 139 6 `` Wake Up Call '' Sharat Raju Jerome Schwartz & Jane Espenson November 10 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 10 ) 2.37 In a flashback , Regina comes across Drizella , who is looking for magic to escape from her mother . When she reveals that she was actually born with magic , Regina begins to train her . However after Regina runs into Rumple , who tells her that Lady Tremaine must have been aware of the magic lessons , the two women realize that Lady Tremaine was counting on using Drizella 's heart to revive Anastasia . Drizella ends up blackening her own heart by killing the prince , making it unusable for revival , and vows to cast a Curse like Regina 's to make her mother suffer . In the present day , Roni struggles with what to believe about the mysterious photo , which is complicated by newly discovered information about `` Regina Mills '' into which Lucy encouraged her to look . Drizella gathers the ingredients for a plant that the witch then cultivates and , when she serves its essence to Roni , she wakes up and remembers her life as Regina . Drizella then reveals that she cast the curse and blackmails Regina into keeping Henry and Jacinda apart , reminding her of a special contingency that was put into the Curse that would force her to comply . 140 7 `` Eloise Gardener '' Alex Kalymnios David H. Goodman & Brigitte Hales November 17 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 17 ) 2.28 This episode 's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed . Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise . ( December 2017 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) In a flashback to the Wish Realm shortly after the Charmings stopped Regina from casting her curse , Hook agrees to grant her passage on the Jolly Roger in exchange for leading him to powerful magic guarded by a witch . When he arrives at the witch 's tower , he finds Rapunzel instead . She instructs him to retrieve a golden flower from the witch 's garden . When he returns with it to help her , they spend the night together . The next morning , it is revealed that Rapunzel is actually Gothel and their night together produced a baby , whom Gothel leaves behind so she can escape the tower . Hook gives the Jolly Roger to Smee and decides to stay with his daughter , who is unable to leave due to the tower 's spell . He names her Alice after his own mother . In the present day , Rogers is on a mad hunt for Eloise with help from Henry and Tilly . Tilly later informs him that Eloise has died , but it turns out that the news was planted by Weaver to throw him off the case . Weaver warns Rogers that Eloise is not the person he thinks she is . When Rogers finds Gothel , he believes that she is Eloise and frees her from Victoria , who gets locked up for kidnapping . Meanwhile , Tremaine has discovered that Drizella is awake and Regina tries to put some distance between Henry and Jacinda . 141 8 `` Pretty in Blue '' Ralph Hemecker Dana Horgan & Leah Fong November 17 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 17 ) 2.28 This episode 's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed . Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise . ( December 2017 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) In flashbacks , Hook is reunited with Alice , who claims that they have been cured of their curse . However , when they try to embrace , Hook gets hurt and Alice runs away in fear . Henry and Cinderella chase her back to New Wonderland , a place where Cinderella reveals her mother Cecilia ran to after abandoning her and her stepfather . She takes a shrinking potion and leaves Henry , heading into the Infinite Maze alone to find answers . She finds Alice , who tells her that she met Cecilia before and that she was also afflicted with the Curse of the Poisoned Heart . Drizella appears in New Wonderland with a plan to curse Henry , but Alice and Cinderella are able to save him . Henry and Cinderella then share their first kiss . In the present day , Jacinda contacts Nick ( Jack in Fairy Tale Land ) , a lawyer whom she has been cursed to believe is Lucy 's father . He agrees to help her regain custody of Lucy , to Henry 's dismay , and Lucy encourages Henry to fight for Jacinda . Meanwhile , Drizella and Gothel plan to revive Anastasia but , when they open her coffin , her body is missing . After Regina confronts Rumple , who refuses to confirm that he has woken up from the curse , she announces to Henry that she 's heading to San Francisco to meet with someone who was pushed out of town by Victoria . He agrees to join her on the trip . 142 9 `` One Little Tear '' Steve Pearlman Christopher Hollier & Adam Karp December 8 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 08 ) 2.45 Victoria strikes a deal with Weaver in an attempt to free herself from jail and wake Anastasia . In flashbacks , Rapunzel takes from Mother Gothel 's garden to save her family and is trapped in a tower in exchange . After 6 years of captivity , Rapunzel escapes using her hair but finds her husband Marcus has remarried to Cecilia , gaining a stepdaughter , Ella . Gothel tempts Rapunzel with a New Wonderland mushroom , which she uses to poison Cecilia 's heart . One day , Anastasia and Ella falls through thin ice , but to Rapunzel 's disbelief , their father only manages to save Ella . Rapunzel seeks Gothel 's help , who magically seals Anastasia 's last breath with the price of keeping Anastasia in the tower . However , Rapunzel tricks Gothel who becomes trapped in her own tower until someone in her bloodline takes her place . In the present day , Victoria strangely gives full custody of Lucy to Jacinda , claiming to be a changed person . Victoria retrieves the Once Upon a Time book and shows Lucy her unfortunate life story as Rapunzel and convinces Lucy to give up her belief in happy endings . As Lucy sheds a tear , Victoria uses it to awaken Anastasia , while Lucy collapses into unconsciousness . 143 10 `` The Eighth Witch '' Ralph Hemecker Jane Espenson & Jerome Schwartz December 15 , 2017 ( 2017 - 12 - 15 ) 2.29 In a flashback , baby Lucy is born , just as Drizella appears to deliver a prophecy about a curse . The heroes are able to turn Drizella to stone . Eight years later , everyone is celebrating Lucy 's birthday when Gothel appears with her coven of witches , recruiting Drizella to join them as she is finally freed . With the curse looming , Regina heads off to get help from Zelena . Later , when the heroes confront the witches , Gothel reveals that they have poisoned Henry , and Regina is forced into casting Drizella 's curse to save his life . In the present day , Regina has located a cursed Zelena in San Francisco , who is now known as Kelly . Regina is able to give Zelena her memories back and the two head back to Seattle , knowing that breaking the curse to help Lucy would only hurt Henry instead . Rumple tests Anastasia to see if she is the Guardian . However , Gothel also wants Anastasia and severs her alliance with Drizella after the girl is brought to her , deeming Anastasia to be more useful in her coven . Gothel tells her that they need to find their fellow witches . 144 11 `` Secret Garden '' TBA Edward Kitsis & Adam Horowitz March 2 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 02 ) TBD 145 12 `` A Taste of the Heights '' TBA David H. Goodman & Brigitte Hales TBA TBD 146 13 `` Knightfall '' TBA Jerome Schwartz & Miguel Ian Raya TBA TBD 147 14 `` The Girl in the Tower '' TBA Dana Horgan & Leah Fong TBA TBD 148 15 `` Sisterhood '' TBA Christopher Hollier & Adam Karp TBA TBD 149 16 `` Breadcrumbs '' TBA Jane Espenson & Jerome Schwartz TBA TBD 150 17 `` Chosen '' Lana Parrilla Paul Karp & Brian Ridings TBA TBD