The T'Challa iteration of Black Panther is a playable character in Marvel : Ultimate Alliance , voiced by Phil LaMarr . He can be unlocked by collecting 5 of his action figures . When the player asks about how Black Panther came to be , he will bring up his history which involved his father being killed by Klaw and passing every trial to become the next Black Panther . He has special dialogue with Nick Fury , Namor , Ghost Rider , Doctor Doom , and Deathbird . In his simulation disc , he has to battle Dark Captain America in Arcade 's Murderworld . The T'Challa iteration of Black Panther is an NPC in Marvel : Ultimate Alliance 2 , voiced by Tim Russ . He is one of the few characters in the game to not be taken under the control of The Fold , providing the heroes with a base prior to the final assault on the Fold as Wakanda is now the last bastion of resistance against the nanites . He is playable in Vicarious Visions ( Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 , later also PlayStation 4 , Xbox One and PC ) versions and originally as a downloadable character for PS3 and Xbox 360 . Black Panther appears as an NPC in Storm 's ending for Marvel vs. Capcom 3 : Fate of Two Worlds . The T'Challa iteration of Black Panther is a playable character in Marvel Super Hero Squad Online . The T'Challa iteration of Black Panther is a playable character in the Facebook game Marvel : Avengers Alliance . The T'Challa iteration of Black Panther is a playable character in the MMORPG Marvel Heroes , voiced by James C. Mathis III . The T'Challa iteration of Black Panther appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes , voiced by John Eric Bentley . He is also shown to have a pet cat named Mr. Tiddles . In the mid-credits , Nick Fury encounters him while overseeing the reconstruction of the Statue of Liberty . After finding Mr. Tiddles , Black Panther tells Nick Fury that the people of Wakanda thank him for thwarting Galactus ' attack . The T'Challa iteration of Black Panther is a playable character in Marvel Avengers Alliance Tactics . The T'Challa iteration of Black Panther is a playable character in Marvel Contest of Champions . The T'Challa iteration of Black Panther is a playable character in Marvel Mighty Heroes . The T'Challa iteration of Black Panther is a playable character in Marvel Future Fight . The T'Challa iteration of Black Panther is a playable character in Disney Infinity 3.0 . The MCU version of Black Panther is a playable character in Lego Marvel 's Avengers . He is a DLC Character available in the `` Civil War '' pack . His pet cat Mr. Tiddles from Lego Marvel Super Heroes also reappears in the hub areas of the game . A DLC pack based on Classic Black Panther was later released for the game . Classic Black Panther appears as the main playable character of the pack along with several other supporting characters and villains and his Skybike . The T'Challa iteration of Black Panther appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2 . The T'Challa iteration of Black Panther appears as a downloadable character in Marvel vs. Capcom : Infinite , with James C. Mathis III reprising his role . In the story , he rules the kingdom of Valkanda , using the Time Stone to protect it . When the heroes appear and help defend the kingdom from invaders , he offers them the Time Stone to aid their quest . Black Panther appears as a playable character in Marvel Strike Force .