Jesse Eisenberg as J. Daniel `` Danny '' Atlas / The Lover : An arrogant illusionist and street magician , and the ostensible leader of the Four Horsemen . Mark Ruffalo as Dylan Rhodes - Shrike , an FBI agent struggling to capture and bring the Four Horsemen to justice for their unique heist agenda . In the outcome , he is revealed to be an illusionist , a member of the Eye himself , Lionel Shrike 's son and the plotter of the entire heist mission . Mélanie Laurent as Alma Dray , a French Interpol agent who is partnered up with Dylan Rhodes to investigate the Four Horsemen . Woody Harrelson as Merritt McKinney / The Hermit : A hypnotist , mentalist , and a self - proclaimed psychic . Originally more famous in his youth , his manager brother absconded with all his money , leaving McKinney with a long hard trek back to his former glory . Middle - aged , McKinney is the oldest of the Four Horsemen . Isla Fisher as Henley Reeves / The High Priestess : An escapist and stage magician . She is also J. Daniel Atlas ' former assistant and ex-lover . Morgan Freeman as Thaddeus Bradley , an ex-magician who , for thirty years , has profited by revealing the secrets behind other magicians ' tricks . Dave Franco as Jack Wilder / Death : A sleight of hand illusionist , street magician , and a talented impressionist of other people 's voices . Additionally , he is a pickpocket , and is able to pick locks . In his early twenties , Wilder is the youngest of the Four Horsemen . Michael Caine as Arthur Tressler , an insurance magnate and the Four Horsemen 's sponsor . David Warshofsky as FBI Agent Cowan . Michael Kelly as Agent Fuller , an FBI agent who serves as Rhodes ' sidekick . Common as Agent Evans , Rhodes 's supervisor at the FBI . José Garcia as Étienne Forcier , the account holder at the Crédit Républicain de Paris . Caitriona Balfe as Jasmine Tressler , Arthur Tressler 's young wife . Elias Koteas as Lionel Shrike , a magician who drowned while performing an escape trick thirty years earlier . Dylan is revealed to be his son at the end of the movie . Conan O'Brien as himself