Nick Kroll as : Nick Birch , a preadolescent boy , with a mother named Diane who babies him and father named Elliot who overshares . He also has an older brother Judd and a sister named Leah . Maurice the Hormone Monster , a wild thing - type monster who follows Andrew around and is responsible for his brooding sexual desires , which frequently occur at inappropriate moments . Coach Steve , the middle school gym class teacher , who is incompetent and overly talkative , often trying to get his colleagues - or even the students - to hang out ( often to no avail ) . It is heavily implied that the coach may be mentally disabled . Kroll also voices Lola , Lady Liberty , a ladybug , Joe Walsh , the ghosts of Picasso and Richard Burton , and Sylvester Stallone . John Mulaney as Andrew Glouberman , a young Jewish boy , who spends much of his time furtively masturbating . Mulaney also voices Mint , Grandpa Andrew , Babe the Blue Ox , and a detective . Jessi Klein as Jessi Glaser , a sarcastic and smart girl . Her father , named Greg , is an unemployed stoner and her mother , named Shannon , is secretly dating another woman . She gets her period for the first time on a school trip to the Statue of Liberty . Jason Mantzoukas as Jay Bilzerian , a boy who is obsessed with magic and sex . He has sex with a pillow that he made into a sex toy . His mom is mentally ill , his dad is a divorce lawyer , and his two older brothers are named Kurt and Val . He is obsessed with Nick 's mother and father and wishes for a loving family . Mantzoukas also voices the ghost of Socrates and Guy Bilzerian . Jenny Slate as Missy , a girl who is nerdy and kind . Her father is black and her mother is white . Fred Armisen as Elliot Birch / Ghost of Antonin Scalia / Bus Driver / Stavros Maya Rudolph as Diane Birch / Connie the Hormone Monstress / Bath Mat / Ghost of Elizabeth Taylor / Ghost of Whitney Houston Jordan Peele as the Ghost of Duke Ellington / Ghost of Freddie Mercury / Atlanta Claus / DJ / Cyrus / Patrick Ewing