A French version entitled La Belle et la Bête was made in 1946 , directed by Jean Cocteau , starring Jean Marais as the Beast and Josette Day as the Beauty . This version adds a subplot involving Belle 's suitor Avenant , also played by Marais . A 1952 animated feature film , The Scarlet Flower , based upon Aksakov 's aforementioned tale , was directed by Lev Atamanov and produced at the Soyuzmultfilm . It was restored at the Gorky Film Studio in 1987 , and is now widely available on several video and DVD editions in Russia ( an English - subtitled version has not been released ) . A 1962 version directed by Edward L. Cahn , starring Joyce Taylor and Mark Damon , had the Beast as a prince who transformed into a werewolf at night , with makeup by Universal 's Jack Pierce . In 1987 , The Cannon Group and Golan - Globus Productions released Beauty and the Beast , a musical live - action version , directed by Eugene Marner , starring John Savage as Beast , and Rebecca De Mornay as Beauty , with original music by Lori McKelvey . It was released on VHS in 1988 by Cannon Video , and on DVD in 2005 by MGM Home Entertainment . In 1991 , Walt Disney Feature Animation produced a musical animated film entitled Beauty and the Beast , directed by Kirk Wise and Gary Trousdale , with a screenplay by Linda Woolverton , and songs by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman . Like the 1946 version , the Disney version also names Beauty `` Belle '' and gives her a handsome suitor ( here named Gaston ) who eventually plots to kill the Beast . The Beast is depicted to having the head structure and horns of a bison , the jaws , teeth , and mane of a lion , the eyebrow of a gorilla , the tusks of a wild boar , the arms and body of a bear , and the hind legs and tail of a wolf . Children 's film producer Diane Eskenazi produced Beauty and the Beast , directed by Masakazu Higuchi and Chinami Namba , for Golden Films in 1993 . The film , which relied on moderate animation techniques but was mostly faithful to the original tale , featured classical compositions as opposed to an original soundtrack , featuring the works of many well - known popular composers . This film 's version of the Beast has the body of a gorilla , the mane of a lion , the snout and tusks of a common warthog , and the tail of a bull . The theme of the music video `` I 'd Do Anything for Love ( But I Wo n't Do That ) '' by Meat Loaf , released in 1993 , is adapted from Beauty and the Beast . A 2005 Viking period film directed by David Lister was alternately known as Beauty and the Beast and Blood of Beasts . A dark version of the fairy tale updated to modern times , director Robert Beaucage 's 2008 film Spike , was described ( at its premiere at the Edinburgh International Film Festival where it was chosen as part of the Best of the Fest ) as `` Angela Carter rewriting La Belle et la Bête as an episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer '' . Another modern take is Beastly starring Alex Pettyfer as the beast ( named Kyle ) and Vanessa Hudgens as the love interest ( named Lindy ) . Directed by Daniel Barnz it is based on the book Beastly mentioned above . Beauty and the Beast , a French - German film , released in 2014 . Beauty and the Beast , a Disney live - action remake of the 1991 animated film , starring Emma Watson and Dan Stevens , was released on March 17 , 2017 .