Belgium ( until 2010 ) , Cyprus , Finland , Georgia ( until 2014 ) , Hungary , Lithuania , Malta , Sweden ( since 1974 ) , and Moldova ( since 2014 ) each use combinations of first three letters and then three digits . Bulgaria uses plate numbers in the form A ( A ) - 0000 - A ( A ) , i.e. one or two letters representing the region , then four digits , then one or two more letters . All letters used are intersection of Latin and Cyrillic alphabet , i.e. A , B , C , E , H , K , M , O , P , T , X and Y . Greece uses a combination of three letters ( which are the intersection of Latin and Greek alphabet , i.e. A , B , E , Z , H , I , K , M , N , O , P , T , Y , X in Greek alphabetic order ) and four numbers , in the form of AAA - 0000 , while Spain uses a four number - three letter combination , in the form of 0000 BBB ( vowels and some maybe confusing consonants , like Ñ and Q , are not used ) Denmark and Norway use two letters and five digits ( for trailers in Denmark two letters but just four digits ) . The plates look very similar , but Denmark has a red border around the plate . Use of the country code on the plate may mitigate this problem ( Norway began using the system on 1 November 2006 ) . Denmark has begun running out of combinations in this style and has now introduced combinations previously reserved for Faroe Islands for EU style number plates ( which will use different letters than non-EU style plates ) . The Netherlands and Portugal both use three groups of two characters ( letters or numbers ) in several sequences : AB - 12 - CD , 12 - 34 - AB , 12 - AB - 34 , AB - 12 - 34 , etc . However , Portuguese plates have a white background , while those of Netherlands ( after 1978 - 01 - 01 ) have a yellow one , though both countries also use white letters on blue plates for classic cars . Furthermore , newer plates on Dutch vehicles only contain consonants , to avoid coincidental abbreviations or words . Also some sensitive letter combinations , such as SS or SD , are not used . The combination ' AA ' is reserved for cars of the royal family . Dutch company registered bus , truck and / or minivan plates always start with a B or a V. Dutch taxis use blue registration plates . The number of new combinations ran out in 2008 . By now , new registered cars in the Netherlands use the following format of two digits - three letters - one digit ( 12 - ABC - 3 ) . Belgium used the sequence ABC - 123 between 1973 and 2008 . When these combinations ran out in 2008 , the inverse sequence 123 - ABC was adopted , with the first plate in the new series issued on June 25 , 2008 . With the introduction of the European format on November 15 , 2010 , a seven - character combination 1 - ABC - 234 is used and the previous 123 - ABC was discontinued . However , the six - character plates will remain valid and no date is set for their expiration yet . Since Belgian plates are linked to an owner rather than to a vehicle , these older plates are likely to remain in use for a considerable time . As a way to phase out the six - character plates , future vehicle subscriptions will only be possible on the seven - character plates . Luxembourg plates use two letters and four digits AB 1234 . Older series with only three digits ( AB 123 ) or all - numeric plates with up to five digits are no longer issued but are still in use . Current registrations allocated in Romania and the United Kingdom ( where the registration contains two digits ) are both of the form AB12 CDE ) . The Romanian rear plates are white whereas UK ones are yellow . There is also a difference in the spacing and the font . In 2015 , Bucharest , the capital of Romania , adopted the form B 123 AAA , three digits and three letters , because the number of cars had risen . Sweden . Until 1973 / 74 the Swedish pattern was one letter representing the län ( county ) where the car was first registered , followed by four or five digits . However , in the more populated län , a second letter became introduced over time . F.i. vehicles from southernmost county got the letter M + five digits , later also MA + five digits , MB + five digits etc . A problem was that the two northernmost counties had already been given two letters , the letter prefixes AC and BD , as the number of usable letters exceeded the number of counties . The ABC 123 system was introduced gradually from July 1973 until June 1974 . Slovakia uses AB 123CD and Croatia uses AB 123 - CD ( in both cases also other patterns are possible ) . Both countries use a coat of arms after first two letters , and the fonts and colors also look very similar . The plates can be easily distinguished by country code on the blue strip on left . Montenegro and Serbia , currently not members of the EU , used the following system until 2007 : MM 12 - 34 , MM 123 - 45 or MM 123 - 456 ( MM being two letter abbreviation of municipality ) , and having state flag ( of former Yugoslavia , later Serbia and Montenegro ) between municipality and numbers . Montenegro left that system in 2007 , and introduced new format : MM AB 123 , with Montenegrin coat of arms in circular shape between municipality and letter sequence . Blue strip with MNE country code is placed in the left side , with vacant place for EU stars , in case of joining the Union . Serbia also uses new system with blue strip country code SRB : MM 123 - AB and MM 1234 - AB , with Serbian coat of arms between municipality and number sequence . The first two letters on the Serbian plates represent the municipality code , written in Latin letters , and repeated in Cyrillic characters with small letters under the coat of arms . The following system is used for taxi vehicles : BG 123 TX or BG 1234 TX and recently even BG 12345 TX , where a TX combination is reserved for this purpose only ( another taxi vehicles have private vehicle plates ) . Since 2017 , Serbia stopped issuing plates with last two letters containing W , Q , Y , X ( except TX ) , Č , Ć , Š , Ž , and Đ , however Serbian Latin letters with diacritics are still used to mark the municipality code , like ČA for Čačak or ŠA for Šabac .