Henry Gibson as Wilbur , a pig who was almost killed due to being a runt . Over time , however , he grows so much that one would never have known he was once a runt . When he learns of his fate of being slaughtered , Wilbur instantly breaks down into tears , until Charlotte tells him that she will do whatever it takes to save him . Wilbur is a friendly pig , but also prone to anxiety . Debbie Reynolds as Charlotte A. Cavatica , a spider who lives on a web in a corner of Homer 's barn above Wilbur 's pig pen . She is very loving and motherly , but sometimes grows frustrated at Wilbur 's anxiety issues . At the end of the film , she dies after laying 514 eggs , but three of them decide to stay with Wilbur . Paul Lynde as Templeton , a care - free , egotistical rat who lives at Homer 's farm . He helps Charlotte get new ideas for her webs on the condition that he is promised food . At the end of the film , as well as the sequel , he has four bratty children of his own : Henrietta , Lester , Ralphie , and Junior . Agnes Moorehead as the Goose , an unnamed goose who is the one that encourages Wilbur to speak for the first time . Her seven goslings later hatch , although there were actually eight eggs ( one was rotten ) . In the sequel , she was named Gwen . Don Messick as Jeffrey , a young , undersized gosling whom Wilbur befriends shortly after his birth . He initially lives , eats , and sleeps with Wilbur rather than his mother and siblings . At one point , Avery remarks that he sounds more like a pig than a gosling , which pleases Jeffrey . When Wilbur is loaded into a crate destined for the fair , Jeffrey casually walks in to join him , amusing the humans but they still remove and restrain him nevertheless . International VHS releases show a deleted scene in which Jeffrey is briefly seen riding with Avery in the back of the Arables ' truck , until it stops so Avery can put him down in the middle of the road . Distressed at being separated from Wilbur , Jeffrey tries to catch up with the truck to no avail , leaving him heartbroken . His mother gently directs him to the pond to join his siblings . Despite his previous insistence that they be friends forever , Jeffrey does not reunite with Wilbur when the latter returns from the fair nor does he appear in the rest of the film . Herb Vigran as Lurvy , Homer 's farmhand who is the first to notice the messages in Charlotte 's webs . Pamelyn Ferdin as Fern Arable , John 's daughter who convinces him to spare Wilbur 's life . Martha Scott as Mrs. Arable , Fern 's mother who first tells her of what was going to happen to Wilbur . Bob Holt as Homer Zuckerman , Mrs. Arable 's brother and Fern 's uncle . John Stephenson as John Arable , Fern 's father . He was about to `` do away '' with Wilbur until she intervened . Danny Bonaduce as Avery Arable , Fern 's older brother . William B. White as Henry Fussy , a boy of about Fern 's age , whom she soon starts spending time with while Wilbur is at the fair . Dave Madden as the Ram , one of the first animals Wilbur meets at Homer 's farm . He is the first to tell Wilbur that it is a pig 's fate to be slaughtered and turned into smoked bacon and ham . Madden also voiced other characters in the film . Joan Gerber as Edith Zuckerman , Homer 's wife . She comes up with the idea of giving Wilbur a buttermilk bath . Gerber also voiced Mrs. Fussy , Henry 's stern mother who never lets him have fun . Rex Allen as the Narrator