# Episode Written by Airdate Production Code 14 `` Skeleton King '' Henry Gilroy 02 / 06 / 2005 201 With only Gibson and a half damaged Super Robot , Chiro must mount a rescue against the Citadel of Bone to save the Hyperforce from tortuous brainwashing by Mandarin and Sakko . As Chiro and Gibson explore the citadel 's nightmarish interior they discover secrets of Chiro 's past as well as a secret of Skeleton King himself . Can Chiro harness the Power Primate , free his friends , and defeat Skeleton King before he unleashes a wave of evil on Shuggazoom ? 15 `` World of Giants '' Kevin Hopps & Tom Hart 02 / 12 / 2005 202 When Sparx says that Tolomac 3 is just another piece of rock floating in space , he could n't be more wrong . It turns out that there 's an entire kingdom of giants living there , and they 've mistaken the Super Robot for one of their own . Sparx decides to take advantage of the situation and pose as a knight , but the Robot is losing power , and unless the team can find the nearby energy source , they 'll be stuck there for good ! But there 's one who does n't want them to leave - he wants to get rid of this `` square - headed knight '' himself ... But do n't forget the new `` girlfriend '' Sparx gets while he 's there . Guest : Rip Taylor as King of Giants 16 `` The Lords of Soturix 7 '' Brandon Auman 02 / 19 / 2005 203 Responding to a distress call , the Super Robot crash lands on Soturix 7 . To make things worse , an energy field around the planet has shorted out the robot , Chiro 's powers , AND the minds of the rest of the Monkey Team ! Now Chiro must brave Skurgg 's sadistic games , survive the desert , and reclaim his friends ... and his only hope is to connect with the Power Primate on an entirely new level . Guest : Wil Wheaton as Skurgg 17 `` In the Grip of Evil '' Brandon Auman 02 / 25 / 2005 204 It all started with the nightmares . But nobody could 've predicted how much more they would soon become . The team is whisked away to a strange dream world dream world where all their hopes , fears , and memories are seemingly reality - including Skeleton King . The monkeys are about to discover something they thought they 'd all forgotten . But memories can never completely fade ... 18 `` Versus Chiro '' Brandon Auman 03 / 05 / 2005 205 It was just an ordinary day of training - until Chiro 's head blew off ! It turns out to be a Formless clone , and the monkeys are on a wild chase around the city to find the real one . Meanwhile , the real Chiro is held hostage at Mandarin 's fortress . It wo n't be easy to escape - there are deformed clones at every corner ! Can the monkeys rescue Chiro in time ? 19 `` Shadow Over Shuggazoom '' Henry Gilroy & Kevin Hopps 03 / 12 / 2005 206 Skeleton King plants an eye monster in the waters of Shuggazoom . The monster grows , then attacks all the citizens . When someone look into its gigantic eye , they become mind - controlled zombies . It also controls Sparx , Gibson , Nova and Otto ! Only Chiro and Antauri , and two other kids , BT and Glenny resist the spell only for Glenny to get attacked and bitten by Otto and Nova , while Antauri and BT looks into its eye turning them into zombies . But soon enough , Chiro is the only one left . Can Chiro stop the monster and save all the citizens of Shuggazoom along with their monkey comrades ? 20 `` The Sun Riders Return '' Barry Hawkins 03 / 19 / 2005 207 Chasing the latest Skeleton King monster into space , the Monkey Team encounters not only the villain 's latest diabolical scheme , but an apparently reformed team of Sun Riders . But the questions remains ... can these villains truly be trusted ? 21 `` Hunt for the Citadel of Bone '' Greg Weisman 04 / 09 / 2005 208 When a fragment of the Citadel of Bone is spotted , you can be sure the Hyperforce is after it . But when they come across an old piloting legend , the team get a lot more than they bargained for . Sure enough , the Citadel is still in existence - and restoring itself . Will the monkey team be able retrieve this strange man 's crew and to put an end to the evil before it starts ? Or will this legend let his thirst for revenge end everything - including their lives ? Guest : Lance Henriksen as Mobius Quint 22 `` Snowbound '' Brandon Auman & Henry Gilroy 04 / 16 / 2005 209 Snow hits Shuggazoom City and it brings up not only endless questions from Gibson , but weird behavior from Nova . She wo n't go in the cold and a snowball to the head gets her so flustered , her body temperature alone can melt the snow . When the Hyperforce realizes there are other forces at work , they go beneath the surface to get to the source of the freeze . Haunted by memories of her past , the yellow monkey tries to keep her cool . But when the rest of the team is frozen solid , it 's the last straw for Nova , and it 's time to see just how powerful one monkey 's temper can be ... 23 `` Wonder Fun Meat World '' Brandon Auman 04 / 23 / 2005 210 A new meat joint has opened up in Shuggazoom , and everyone in the city seems to be taken by this eatery . Even Otto is under its spell ! But soon things start to get ugly - literally - when meat mutants begin to attack . Could Wonder Fun Meat World be more than it 's cracked up to be ? 24 `` The Skeleton King Threat '' Henry Gilroy 04 / 30 / 2005 211 The Monkey Team is finally able to talk to the citizens of Shuggazoom ! Now with this new ability , they 've decided to let everyone in on the true danger that surrounds them - the Skeleton King threat . 25 `` Antauri 's Masters '' Brandon Auman 05 / 07 / 2005 212 Antauri , sensing a disturbance in the Power Primate , heads off to see the ones who taught him the ways of the mystical energy . Fearful that his friend may not return , Chiro stows away in the Brain Scrambler , and joins Antauri on his mission . But upon arrival , things start to go south as the monkey 's master informs him that the `` Dark Ones '' have returned and that the Power Primate is deteriorating - and proves himself a traitor as well . Now Chiro must fight his way past the temple 's guardians to get to Antauri and stop Master Zan . But could the Power Primate be coming to an end ? Guest : Michael York as Master Zan 26 `` I , Chiro '' Henry Gilroy 05 / 15 / 2005 213 The Power Primate is gone and the Dark Ones will soon wreak havoc upon Shuggazoom . All seems lost . But with one last hope , Chiro will have to do the unimaginable to save Shuggazoom , and while most of the team have fallen , the only ones that still stand are Chiro and Antauri . As they battle the Skeleton King and defeating them , Antauri is seriously damaged and wounded by Mandarin , but Chiro defeats him , but , as Skeleton King was reviving , Antauri sacrifices himself to save Chiro , as he gets destroyed , a bolt of lightning gets into Chiro 's body , nearly killing him , and nearly stopping reviving Skeleton King . As the team are back again , they wanted to save Chiro , that was uncontrollable going into an unknown region , the savage lands .