2 - 11 January 4 , 2011 Got a Death Certificate James Clement is selling a boat , and a pair of men , the Ellis brothers , pose as potential customers and say they wish to take the boat for a spin . Once out at sea , they order Clement overboard at gunpoint and shot him to death , thereby robbing him of the boat . They arrange to drive it to the Bahamas where drug dealer Anthony Ragno will buy the boat to sell on the black market . But once Ragno learns the boat was associated with a murder , he feels uncomfortable , flees the Bahamas , and returns to his home in Ft . Lauderdale . The Ellis brothers want to silence him and come to his home intent on murdering him . But Ragno senses he is in danger , and he flees to Texas , where he obtains honest employment . The FBI question Ragno to get information useful in prosecuting the Ellis brothers for Clement 's murder . But Ragno is also sentenced for his role to a year in prison , which he fears due to the presence of the Ellis brothers in the same prison . He is given 30 days to report , and decides to go on the run . With the help of a drug boss , he assumes the identity of a man who has died in a car crash , and his own name is applied to the deceased in a switch . Ragno , now known as James Collins , becomes an overseas drug dealer , using ships to transport marijuana throughout the Western hemisphere . He settles into Haiti , but when civil war breaks out , he moves to Dominican Republic . He is caught with cocaine in Dominican Republic , and deported to the United States . Dominican authorities assume he will be prosecuted , but he enters the country , slipping through the cracks , and continues his life on the run . He has occasional brushes with the law for driving without a license , and most of the time is arrested under the name James Collins , but one time accidentally gives his real name . US Marshals investigating Ragno 's cold case find records that he is dead , but are suspicious due to the lack of a death certificate . They then find an arrest record under his name years later . They visit many of his last known addresses until they receive a tip to his whereabouts . He serves his original one - year sentence and returns to society thereafter .