Date ( s ) Character Actor Circumstances 31 January -- 23 November Luc Patterson Various actors Luc is Billie Ashford and Mick Jennings 's daughter . Billie conceives after she is raped by Mick . She allows her boyfriend VJ Patterson to believe that he is the baby 's father , until their wedding day . Billie gives birth to her daughter at the hospital , shortly after escaping a bush fire . VJ reveals that he and Billie are naming her Luc , after Billie 's late brother , Luke Ashford . VJ 's mother , Leah Patterson Baker is not keen on the name , but VJ explains that Luc is short for Lucinda , which leads Leah to question why her name is not Lucy instead . Mick later kidnaps Luc from the hospital , but he soon hands her over to his mother Irene Roberts , who returns her to Billie . A blessing is held for Luc , but Billie collapses and is later told that she has terminal cancer . VJ takes Billie to the beach , where she dies with Luc in her arms . VJ struggles to cope with Luc , so he and Leah allow her to stay with Irene Roberts . Ash feels that he is being left out , and when Luc gets sick , he decides to apply for temporary custody , which he wins . Ash then takes Luc to live with him , Kat Chapman and his brother Patrick Stanwood . Patrick almost harms her due to his PTSD . Ash and Kat take Luc camping when she fails to settle , but Ash can not wake her in the morning and she later suffers convulsions on the way to the hospital . Tori Morgan informs Ash and Kat that Luc is suffering from a bowel torsion and part of her bowel has become gangrenous . Luc develops septicaemia and she undergoes surgery . The surgery goes well but she is left on life support . Luc wakes up and makes a full recovery . Mick returns to the Bay and seeks custody of Luc , so VJ leaves the country with her . 1 February -- Constable Corelli Nick Cain Constable Corelli assists Kat Chapman with an open arson case . Months later , Corelli finds CCTV footage of Robbo being held at gunpoint by Dylan Carter at a marina . 2 February Lactation Consultant Gail Knight The Lactation Consultant helps Billie Ashford to nurse her newborn daughter . 23 February -- 1 May Ambulance Officer Rob Baird The Ambulance Officer brings John Palmer to the hospital , after he suffers a seizure at home . A few months later , he brings Zac MacGuire in after Zac suffers a fall . The Ambulance Officer tells Tori Morgan that Zac hit his head and lost consciousness for three to five minutes . 27 February -- 8 May Patrick Stanwood Luke McKenzie Patrick comes to the beach to watch the funeral service for Billie Ashford . Kat Chapman spots him leaving . She later identifies Patrick as Billie and Martin Ashford 's brother , Luke , who is presumed dead . After Kat and Ash search Patrick 's home , he appears and calls out to Ash , who punches him and leaves . Patrick comes to the Summer Bay Caravan Park to see Ash . He tells him that he faked his death as he was depressed following his last tour of duty . Kat brings Patrick to the station for questioning . Ash later introduces Patrick to his niece Luc . Kat forces Ash and Patrick to sit down and talk . Patrick stops Ash from attacking John Palmer . Patrick moves into the farmhouse with Kat . She and Ash soon realise that he is suffering from PTSD , which worsens when Ash is granted temporary custody of Luc . Patrick strikes Ava Gilbert with his car while suffering a flashback . He later reveals to Ash that he killed a young girl while he was serving in the army . Patrick leaves the Bay , and Ash finds him on some cliffs . Ash stops Patrick from hurting himself and tells him that he and Luc need him around . Patrick finally bonds with Luc and agrees to get help for his PTSD . 7 March -- 15 August Lena Ascot Felicity McKay While attending O - Week at the university , Lena bumps into Olivia Fraser Richards and asks for directions to the design and arts building . She later invites Olivia to a student night at Salt , and introduces her friends Byron and Steve . Lena later introduces herself to Olivia 's former boyfriend Mason Morgan . Lena sells drugs at the student night and Brody Morgan asks her to leave Salt . She tells him to look the other way , but Brody throws everyone out . Lena collects her credit card the following day and apologises to Brody . He later hires her as a waitress at Salt , but threatens to fire her when he catches her using cocaine . Lena gives some to Brody , and he takes it to help him create a new menu . Brody and Lena have a brief romantic relationship , until he fires her . Brody 's brother Justin Morgan sees Lena at the beach and tells her that Brody has developed a drug addiction . He grabs her arm and warns her to stay away . Kat Chapman intervenes and Lena leaves . Kat later brings Lena to the police station to question her about selling drugs . Justin tries to talk to Lena again , after Brody goes missing , but she tells him that she has not seen Brody and walks away . Raffy Morrison later asks for Lena 's help in finding Brody , and Lena gives Justin an address to a house that Brody might be staying in . Months later , Lena attends the same rehab facility as Brody and encourages him to sneak out . She produces some drugs and tries to tempt Brody to use again , but he leaves her and walks back to rehab . 7 March Byron Benjamin Winckle Byron encourages Olivia Fraser Richards to come to Salt with him and Lena Ascot later in the week . After learning Olivia 's boyfriend Hunter King is repeating his final school year , Byron tells him that Olivia is out of his league and they fight . Mason Morgan intervenes and sends Byron away . 9 March Local Woman Meagan Caratti The local man and woman recognise John Palmer from the newspaper , and the man tells John to take some responsibility for the fires he started . The woman calls John a coward , leading his wife Marilyn to defend him . Local Man James Caitlin 13 March -- 18 April Jess Kearney Jess Bush Olivia Fraser Richards meets with Jess at the Pier Diner for a study session . Jess embarrasses Olivia 's boyfriend Hunter King , as he is repeating Year 12 . A few weeks later , Hunter invites Jess to Salt to celebrate Olivia 's birthday . 21 March Cal Whitman Craig Scott Cal is one of several people forced to stay at the Caravan Park , after their homes are destroyed in a bush fire started by John Palmer . John later address everyone to tell them that he is sorry and would like a chance to help them . Cal tells John that he appreciates his gesture . 22 March , 6 December Terry Diamond Rob Flanagan Terry is a renowned restaurant critic , who comes to review the food at Salt . After giving his opinion , Brody Morgan tells Terry he is wrong and insults him . Months later , Terry returns to Summer Bay and orders a meal at the Pier Diner . He asks Marilyn Chambers if he can meet the chef , but she tells him the chef is shy . Terry later goes into the kitchen and discovers the chef is Brody . Terry tells Brody that he is talented and could achieve great things . 29 March -- 3 April Donna Fields Melissa Bonne Donna comes to Summer Bay to surprise her friend Phoebe Nicholson , ahead of her engagement party . They talk about Donna 's music career , and Donna asks Phoebe why she left music . She criticises her new life in Summer Bay , and Phoebe tells her not to come to the party . Donna later apologises , and Phoebe explains that she is happy and that she will play a song at the party . Before Donna leaves town , she asks Phoebe to come on tour with her in the United States . 29 March -- 29 August Lachlan Piers Warwick Allsopp Lachlan is John Palmer 's lawyer . He shows little interest in John 's case and asks John to use insane automatism in his defence instead of mentioning his brain tumour blackout . John later fires Lachlan . Months later , Lachlan tells Ben Astoni that his planning application for the pier is on hold after someone applied for heritage status . 29 March -- 20 April James Mayvers Tim Ross James is Roo Stewart 's boyfriend , who she met in Hawaii . He comes to visit her in Summer Bay and she tries to keep him a secret from her friends , but her aunt Morag Bellingham finds him in Roo 's bedroom . James assures Roo that their age gap does not matter to him . Morag tells James not to get too attached to Roo . James is hired by a news agency to photograph John Palmer after he is convicted of arson and manslaughter . James finds Roo when she faints and she tells him that she think she is going through menopause . James attends Olivia Fraser Richards ' birthday party with Roo , where Marilyn Chambers realises that he took the photos of John . He and Roo argue , but she later invites him over to the flat to tell him she is pregnant . James asks her to have a termination , as he does not want to be a father , but she decides to keep the baby and raise it as a single parent . Roo later has a miscarriage . 3 April -- 30 August William Zannis Caleb Alloway Zannis meets with Brody Morgan , on Lena Ascot 's behalf , to sell him cocaine . He later sells Brody methamphetamine . Brody meets with Zannis to buy more drugs , but when he can not come up with much money , Zannis tells him he could always start selling . When Brody fails to come up with the money for the drugs Zannis gave him to sell , Zannis has him beaten and dumped in the bush . Brody later pays his debt and buys more drugs . Brody contacts Zannis and pretends they are brothers in front of Scarlett Snow , so she will let him leave her house . Zannis is spotted selling drugs by Kat Chapman . She tries to stop him , but he drives at her causing her to jump out of the way . The police find his meth lab , but Zannis disappears . He later finds Brody and tells him he is calling in the favour Brody owes him . Zannis informs Brody that a shipment of drugs is coming to the restaurant , but Brody tells him that he is done and warns Zannis that he will go to the police if he comes back . Zannis enters the Morgan 's house and spikes the drinking water with potassium . Zannis flees when the police try to arrest him . Zannis returns to town and offers Brody more drugs . He later attempts to run Brody and Mason Morgan 's car off the road , and when they crash he comes over to see if they are still alive . Zannis believes Ziggy Astoni is Brody 's girlfriend and kidnaps her . He uses her phone to lure Brody to a motel , and then tries forcing Brody into taking drugs . Kat turns up and is knocked out by Zannis 's accomplice , Faz . Zannis decides to move Ziggy and Brody to a new location , but when he goes outside with a gun , he is disarmed by Robbo . His bail is later revoked . 10 April Court Officer Alistair Bates The court officer asks VJ Patterson to take the oath , before giving his statement . Jury Foreperson Aanisa Vylet The foreperson reads out a guilty verdict in John Palmer 's arson and manslaughter trial . Police Officer Joshua Farah The police officer escorts John Palmer from the court to a waiting police van . 11 -- 25 April Prison Officer PJ Williams The prison officer asks Marilyn Chambers to take off her bag and jewellery before visiting John Palmer . He tells her she will get used to the routine . A few days later , he reminds John and Deacon Marx that cell doors should remain open , before escorting John to his meeting with Morag Bellingham . 12 April Annie Banks Raelee Hill Annie mediates a meeting between Martin Ashford , Kat Chapman , Irene Roberts , VJ Patterson and Leah Patterson - Baker when Ash and Irene apply for custody of Luc Patterson . When Annie realises that they will not reach a peaceful agreement , she ends the meeting and takes the case to the court , which grants Ash a six - month interim parental responsibility order . 13 April Delivery Guy Brendan Dodds The delivery guy brings a food order to Salt , but tells Brody Morgan that his credit cards have been declined . When Brody says that he will go upstairs to get cash , the delivery guy tells Brody to make it quick . 17 -- 25 April Deacon Marx Sam Smith Deacon notices Marilyn Chambers when she visits John Palmer in gaol and stares at her . He later gets in Marilyn 's way as she leaves and smacks her bottom . John grabs Deacon and pushes him up against the wall , causing the guards to pull them apart . Deacon later confronts John about Billie Ashford 's death and shows him his burns from a fire started by another arsonist . John hits him and Deacon 's friends attack him in retaliation . Deacon continues to threaten John , and brings a weapon into his cell , but John manages to talk him down . 17 April Bartender Alex Ewan Hunter King orders two cocktails from the Salt bartender for himself and Olivia Fraser Richards , pointing out that Olivia 's 18th birthday is in a few hours , but the bartender refuses to make them . The bartender later brings over an alcoholic drink and tells Hunter and Olivia that it has gone midnight . 3 -- 11 May Brian Gilbert Tom O'Sullivan Brian comes to the Bay to collect his stepdaughter Ava Gilbert when she comes to meet her father Justin Morgan . Brian tells Ava off for running away , before clashing with Justin . Ava runs off while they are arguing and she is struck by a car . Brian and Justin clash at the hospital , and Brian tells Justin that he can not see Ava . Justin later apologises and thanks Brian for being there for Ava . Brian visits Justin and allows him to see Ava . He later brings her back to the Bay for Justin 's farewell party . 8 May Tony Stoiov Patrick Dickson Tony is a pawnbroker , who offers Brody Morgan $10 for a necklace he wants to sell . Brody gets argumentative and Tony asks him to leave , but Brody starts smashing up the stock . Tony calls the police and Brody runs off . 9 May , 11 July Terry Deakins Chris Hanrahan Terry is from the department of education . He meets with Zac MacGuire , who wants to discuss a potential move . John Palmer notices Terry walking by the Surf Club and introduces him to Zac 's son Hunter King . Terry asks Hunter to speak to Zac about his potential relocation . Terry later meets with Roo Stewart and Maggie Astoni about the vacant principal job at Summer Bay High . 10 May Postman Jonathan Lee Jones The postman delivers a contract from the Mayvers family to Roo Stewart . 17 May David Mayvers Noel Hodda David is James Mayvers 's father . He comes to the Bay to talk to Roo Stewart , who is pregnant with James 's baby . He apologises for sending her a contract and then offers her $250,000 , so that she and her child do not contact James . David urges Roo to think about their future , but she asks him to leave . She later meets with him and rejects his offer . 22 May Heather Shirley Meagan Caratti Heather berates John Palmer for organising a fundraiser for the burns unit , after he was charged with arson . 24 May Helena Harrison Jenevieve Chang Helena and Joseph are Leah Patterson and Zac MacGuire 's divorce lawyers . They meet at Salt for the signing of the papers . Zac does not show up , but Leah signs the papers anyway . Joseph Moore Joel Pierce 29 May -- 7 June Dr. Bailey Voss Travis Jeffery Doctor Voss is a psychologist , who meets with John Palmer . John tells him about his brain tumour and how he feels guilty for the fires he started . John believes Doctor Voss is too young and inexperienced to help him , so he leaves . John later returns and Doctor Voss tries to get him to open up about his childhood , but John realises that he can not recall anything from before he was 12 . John informs Doctor Voss that he believes he was responsible for his father 's death due to flashback he had . Doctor Voss recommends John tries hypnosis . 30 -- 31 May Rebecca Brown Kate Betcher Rebecca notices VJ Patterson at Salt and approaches him . They flirt with each other and Rebecca asks if they can go somewhere more private . The following morning , VJ asks Rebecca to leave , as his mother is in the house . He offers to get her a taxi . Rebecca introduces herself to Alf Stewart before she leaves . 31 May -- 22 June Bede Hadden Bill Young Bede finds John and Jett Palmer outside his home . Jett explains that John used to live there and Bede invites them inside . When John mentions his surname is Palmer , Bede takes him to his father 's grave and reveals that George Palmer died in a fire . Bede later comes to Summer Bay and brings John a box of things he found in his attic . 31 May -- 8 June Young John Palmer Rex Palazzi John Palmer recalls a memory of himself carrying a petrol can , shortly before a fire killed his father . John later recalls that he found his father after he shot himself , and his mother asked him to help cover it up by starting a fire . 8 June Enid Palmer Megan O'Connell John Palmer recalls a memory of him and his mother Enid covering up his father 's suicide by setting a fire . Enid asks John to keep it quiet , as they will never be able to escape the shame . 14 June -- 4 October Jay Turner Aidan Gillett Justin and Mason Morgan go to Jay 's drug den to find their brother Brody Morgan . Jay tells them he has not seen Brody , but Justin and Mason later force their way inside . Jay attempts to hit Justin with a pool cue , but Mason punches him . Months later , Jay is brought into the Yabbie Creek police station , where he realises Brody has told the police about him . He accuses Brody of stabbing him with a screwdriver . Justin comes to Jay 's house to ask him to stop lying about Brody . After the police find the screwdriver at Jay 's house with his fingerprints on it , he tells them that he accidentally fell on it . 14 -- 15 June Bruno Addlen Johnny Nasser Bruno comes to Summer Bay looking for Scarlett Snow . He asks Alf Stewart if he knows her whereabouts , but Alf tells him that he just missed her . Bruno eventually catches up with Scarlett and it emerges he is a private investigator hired to find her by her husband . Bruno asks Scarlett for $8000 to keep her whereabouts a secret and she pays him . Before he leaves , Bruno remarks that if he can find her , so can someone else . 20 June Des Green Kirk Dodd Des leads a Narctoics Anonymous meeting , which Brody Morgan attends . 21 June Anton Shields David Woodland Anton runs the following NA meeting , where Brody Morgan finally admits that he is an addict . 26 June -- 11 September Max Snow Addison Price Scarlett Snow listens to a voicemail from her son Max asking her when she is coming home . Scarlett tells Justin Morgan that her son died a year ago . Scarlett suffers flashbacks that show Max died after falling from a tree and hitting his head . Scarlett found him dead in his bed the following morning . 4 -- 20 July Peggy King Caroline Gillmer Peggy is Hunter King 's grandmother , who comes to Summer Bay after her tries to contact her . Hunter informs Peggy that Zac MacGuire is not his father and Peggy leaves when Hunter calls his mother , Charlotte , a liar . Peggy tells Hunter that she knows about the Pier Diner robbery and she blames him for ruining Charlotte 's life . Hunter 's girlfriend Olivia Fraser Richards talks with Peggy and explains how Hunter has matured , before asking her not to go to the police about the robbery . Peggy reacts badly to Olivia 's plea and tells the police that Hunter committed the Diner robbery . Olivia and Hunter apologise to Peggy , who also apologises to them for going to the police . Hunter and Peggy agree to start afresh and spend time together , with Peggy also helping to find his father . Peggy tells Hunter that she suspects her former neighbour Wally could be his father . 6 July Constable Anderson Jon Scholten Anderson is a PI hired to track down Scarlett Snow . She offers to double his fee to leave , but he tells her has already been paid and gives her a letter from her husband . Anderson learns , via a bug in Scarlett 's caravan , that Justin Morgan is helping her to leave town . Anderson and his associate try to stop them , but Scarlett and Justin escape . 13 July -- 18 December Jarrod McGregor Joel Davies Jarrod is Ziggy Astoni 's boyfriend . She makes a surprise visit only to find him in bed with someone else . Jarrod goes after Ziggy and they argue , before she leaves with Brody Morgan . Months later , Jarrod comes to Summer Bay to see Ziggy . He tells her that he wants her back . Jarrod brings his bike to Summer Bay Auto just to see Ziggy . They later take an old Triumph car for a test drive and Jarrod kisses her . He apologises and offers to just be friends . Ziggy continues to spend time with Jarrod , but she eventually tells him that while she forgive him for cheating on her , they are done as a couple . 13 July Random Girl Emma Sabjan Ziggy Astoni finds her boyfriend Jarrod in bed with the girl . 20 July Tom Joel Hogan Tom flirts with Scarlett Snow in Salt and Justin Morgan warns him off . 31 July -- 4 September Wally Burns Julian Garner Peggy King suspects her former neighbour Wally is Hunter King 's father . After Hunter sends him a letter , which he returns , Wally comes to Summer Bay and eventually meets Hunter . When Hunter expresses his happiness that he has found him , Wally tells him that he can not be his father , as he is infertile . Wally and Hunter later have dinner together and Wally tells Hunter stories about his mother Charlotte King . The following day , Hunter asks Wally for a DNA test , as there is still a chance he could be his father . Wally takes Hunter 's DNA records and asks him not to contact him again . A few days later , Wally returns and tells Hunter a DNA test confirmed that he is Hunter 's father . Hunter tries to bond with Wally , but realises they do not have much in common . Wally lies to his wife that he is at a conference . Wally visits Hunter again , but they still struggle to bond over their respective interests . Wally 's wife Claire follows him to the Bay and accuses Leah Patterson of having an affair with Wally , but Leah tells her the truth about Hunter . Wally later meets with Hunter to apologise and they agree to meet up when things improve between Wally and Claire . Wally gives Hunter a cheque for $50,000 , but Hunter rejects it after realising Claire does not want him around . He then asks Wally for another chance to get to know him , but they still to struggle to bond . Wally overhears Hunter saying he wish he had not gone looking for his father , and Wally agrees . They decide to stop forcing a relationship between them and Wally leaves town . 10 August -- 14 September Doctor Simms Ed Wightman Doctor Simms attempts to take Mason Morgan off the ventilator , but he suffers respiratory arrest . Doctor Simms tells Tori Morgan that the spinal shock obviously has not warn off and they will try again in a couple of days . Mason later wakes up and Doctor Simms carries a series of tests on his sensations and reflexes . Weeks later , Doctor Simms assesses Mason 's progress and decides that he can be discharged . 10 August Norris Gavin Fenwick Christensen Martin Ashford meets Norris to get an address for William Zannis . 14 August Counsellor Kathryn Sarah Amanious After Kathryn finishes up a group session at the rehab facility attended by Brody Morgan , she encourages him to talk at the next one . She later asks him about the hallucinations he suffered while he was taking drugs . At the next session , Kathryn asks the patients to open up about their triggers . 14 August Addict Lisa Ashley Avci Lisa attends group sessions along with Brody Morgan at a rehab facility . 14 August Mackenzie Luke Davis Mackenzie spots Raffy Morrison sitting at the bus stop and offers to drive her home . She accepts and gets into the car , but Mackenzie then makes advances towards her by putting his hand on her leg . She tells him she will get the bus , but Mackenzie accelerates away . As Raffy begs to be let out of the car , Robbo catches up to them and forces Mackenzie to pull over . Raffy gets out and Mackenzie drives off . 16 August Surfer Finlay Upton The surfer notices John Palmer with Luc Patterson and calls him `` Grandpa '' as he walks past . 17 -- 21 August Claire Burns Di Adams Claire comes to the Beach House looking for her husband Wally , and accuses Leah Patterson of having an affair with him . When Wally arrives , he introduces Hunter King as the son of a friend , but Leah then tells Claire that Hunter is Wally 's son . 22 August , 18 December Felicity Cox Amali Golden Felicity is a potential buyer for Salt . Justin Morgan shows her around the restaurant and advises her to come back during the dinner service . Felicity makes it clear that she interested in Justin and kisses him . Four months later , Justin and Brody Morgan meet with Felicity and asks her to sell Salt back to them . She offers to do so at double the price they sold it for . When Justin attempts to flirt with Felicity , she raises the price by $50,000 . Brody meets with Felicity later that day and he brings Willow Harris along , who reveals that she knows that Felicity has committed fraud . Felicity sells Salt back to Brody . 22 August -- Nick Dutton Jacob Allan Nick and his friends come into the Pier Diner and overhear Leah Patterson telling Roo Stewart that she think she has run out of romantic chances , so he asks her out on a date . Nick tells her he has been through a messy break up recently too . Leah turns him down , as she is not ready , but Nick tells her he will check in on her again soon . Nick is called to the high school to collect his daughter Jennifer , after she is suspended for fighting . Nick returns to the diner and invites Leah to have a coffee with him . Ben Astoni comes to see Nick after learning that he applied for the pier to be heritage listed , but they argue and Nick leaves . Months later , Nick drops Jennifer off at the beach and notices her with Huntr King . He later returns to pick her up at the Diner , but Leah tells him Jennifer is at the university with her boyfriend , Hunter . Nick finds Jennifer and accuses Hunter of buying her alcohol . He tells Hunter to stay away from his daughter , before taking her home . 22 August Tyson Indigo Felton Along with Nick Dutton , Tyson and Paul overhear Leah Patterson bemoaning her lack of romantic chances and they both agree that they would ask her out . Paul John Van Putten Polygraph Examiner Gregg Arthur The Polygraph Examiner interviews Robbo , who is suffering from amnesia . 28 August -- 6 September Faz Jesse Rowles Faz helps William Zannis to kidnap and hold Ziggy Astoni hostage . After Brody Morgan joins them , Faz also tries to force him to drink alcohol and take drugs . When Kat Chapman enters the room , Faz hits her over the head with a vase , knocking her unconscious . He and Bob take Ziggy and Brody outside , but they are attacked by Robbo . Ziggy later suffers a flashback to when Faz kidnapped her . 30 August Bob Neal Horton Bob is called to a motel to pick up William Zannis and Faz , and help them move Ziggy Astoni and Brody Morgan to a new location . As he and Faz go outside , they are attacked by Robbo . 4 September -- Dr Pandza Oliver Wenn Dr Pandza is Beth Ellis 's doctor . When she returns to her hospital room for treatment , he advises her to take things easy . A few days later , Dr Pandza is preparing to perform a procedure on Beth when Mason Morgan opens the door and learns she is a patient , not a nurse . 11 September Rose Wagner Jacqui Duncan Kat Chapman shows Rose a photo of Robbo , and asks her if she knows him , but Rose denies seeing him before . 12 September Trish Jeannie Gee Trish watches on as police enter the home of her deceased neighbour , Rose . Kat Chapman asks Trish if she knows Robbo , and Trish tells her that while she has seen him with Rose , she does not know his name . 21 September Leon Maxime Etienne Leon is a tattoo artist , who is asked by Mason Morgan to come to Summer Bay and tattoo himself and Beth Ellis . 25 September -- 5 October Colin Ben Barber While waiting in the queue at the Pier Diner , Colin is approached by Tori Morgan , who flirts with him and asks him on a date . Colin accepts and suggests they go to Salt . The date goes well until they are interrupted by Martin Ashford , causing Colin to leave . Tori contacts Colin a week later to arrange another date . He soon realises that Tori is not into him and decides to leave . He helps Ash 's date Liz with her pram and they decide to get a drink together somewhere else . 26 September Sergeant Halac Louise Kelly Sergeant Halac allows Kat Chapman to take the lead when the police raid Dylan Carter 's house . Sergeant Halac alerts Kat to a wall covered in pictures and newspapers clippings of her . 28 September Photographer Lance Bonza The photographer is invited to take pictures at Olivia Fraser Richards ' launch party for her fashion label . 3 October Junkie Ellen Harvey The junkie answers the door to Scarlett Snow when she calls at Jay Turner 's drug den . Scarlett tells her that she is there to pick something up and offers the junkie money to go and get them cigarettes . 4 October Mate # 1 Peter Sammak Jay Turner 's mate comes to his house to drink beer and play pool with him . 5 October Liz Margarita Merkel Martin Ashford bumps into Liz and her son Phoenix 's pram . After he fixes the broken wheel , Liz asks him out for a coffee and a play date for their children . Ash takes her to Salt , but is distracted when Tori Morgan arrives . Liz decides to leave when she realises that Ash likes Tori . Colin helps her with the pram and she suggests they go and get a drink somewhere else . Baby Phoenix River and Ryder Srhoj 5 -- 23 October Alan Ellis Blair McDonough Alan is spending time with his daughter Beth Ellis when Mason Morgan approaches them and introduces himself as Beth 's boyfriend . Beth apologises to her father for the way he found out about her relationship . Alan invites Mason to brunch and they are joined by his wife Jackie . After brunch , Alan tells Mason to stay away from Beth . He later comes to Mason 's home , where Beth confronts him about what he said . Mason tells Alan that they both want Beth to be happy , and they sit down and talk . Beth is later rushed to the hospital , and Alan tells Mason to stay away . When Beth wakes up , she asks her parents to let Mason see her . Jackie convinces Alan to give them some time alone together . The Ellis ' are later informed that Beth 's heart is failing and she is now top of the transplant list . When Beth 's heart stops , Alan blames Mason for taking her out . Beth dies shortly after of a sudden fatal arrhythmia and Tori tells Alan and Jackie that it could have happened anytime . They later make a complaint against Mason for acting inappropriately . Jackie Ellis Rachael Coopes 9 October Prosecutor Cameron Rhodes The prosecutor in Brody Morgan 's trial details his drug use and how it affected his family and community , before asking for a custodial sentence of six years , with a minimum four - year non-parole period . 9 -- 31 October Caleb Snow Josh McConville Caleb is Scarlett Snow 's estranged husband , who arrives unexpectedly in Summer Bay . Caleb tells Scarlett that he wanted to see how she was following the anniversary of their son 's death . They meet the following day and Caleb apologises for blaming her for Max 's death . He also tells her he seeing a counsellor . Caleb and Scarlett agree to stop being angry with each other and decide to work through their issues , so they can move on . They meet up for dinner and Caleb gives Scarlett Max 's favourite stuffed toy . He tells her he misses and loves her . Caleb leaves town , but returns when Scarlett is injured in an explosion . He tells Justin Morgan to stay away from her and helps Scarlett when she is discharged . Scarlett tells Caleb that she has feelings for Justin , but he responds by kissing her and asking her to return home . Scarlett agrees and she and Caleb leave the Bay . 10 October Pete Sam Woods Maggie Astoni suffers a flashback to the moment she was pushed over by Pete at her previous school . 11 October Waiter Adam Boys The waiter serves Robbo and Kat Chapman when they visit a restaurant in the city . 11 October -- 22 November Dennis Novak Mirko Grillini Novak uses a drone to spy on Robbo and Kat Chapman while they are in the city . He calls his contact to let them know he has found Robbo . Dennis rents a caravan at the park Robbo is staying , and breaks into Robbo 's caravan . He soon realises that Robbo does not recognise him . He speaks to his contact , and later follows Robbo , Kat Chapman , Scarlett Snow and Justin Morgan to a cabin in the bush , where he poses as a maintenance man and plants a bomb . After it explodes , Dennis kidnaps Kat and plans to kill her for testifying against Dylan Carter , but Robbo interrupts him and Dennis runs off . When Robbo catches him , Dennis tells him they served together and his name is Beckett Reid . Dennis hits Robbo with a rock and leaves . The police later track Dennis down , but he escapes them . Robbo learns that was he was hired to kill Kat after tracking Dennis to an old garage . Dennis is informed that Kat is testifying after all , so he kidnaps her at gunpoint and makes her drive to a wreckers yard , where he ties her up inside a car and attempts to crush it . Robbo stops him in time and ties him up , before placing him in the boot of a car . Robbo later returns to the yard , where he learns that it was his dumping ground . Dennis gets free , but is shot while he and Robbo are fighting . Robbo buries his body on the headland across from The Diner . His body is later discovered by Ryder Jackson and Raffy Morrison . 12 October Shelley Hannah Goodwin Shelley meets with Olivia Fraser Richards to get paid for sewing some clothes for Olivia 's business . 12 October Guard David Nicoll The guard at the Northern Districts psychiatric facility allows Martin Ashford to visit Mick Jennings , after Ash tells him he is Mick 's brother and has a message for him . 16 October Parole Assessor Kate Bookallil The parole assessor interviews Mick Jennings , and listens to him as he admits responsibility for his actions and asks for a chance to prove himself . 17 October Elle Gilbert Liz Bardot Elle is brought into the local hospital after suffering a severe head injury in a car accident . Her scans show that she has irreversible brain function and her husband Brendan has to choose when to switch off her life support . 17 -- 23 October Brendan Gilbert Thomas Filer Brendan comes to the hospital to see his wife Elle , who has been involved in a car accident . He is told that she has suffered a brain injury that she will not recover from . Brendan chooses not to honour Elle 's wishes to donate her organs and gets angry at Mason Morgan who tries to get him to change his mind . Mason later apologises to Brendan and invites him to meet his girlfriend Beth Ellis , who needs a heart transplant , but Brendan can not bring himself to see her . He asks for more time before switching off Elle 's life support . Brendan later sees Mason bringing in Beth , who is suffering breathing difficulties . He tells Mason that he has changed his mind about donating Elle 's organs , but it is too late for Beth , who dies . Tori tells him that Elle 's organs will save the lives of eight other people . 19 October Dr Lang Zoe Carides Dr Lang and Oliver are members of the hospital board , who meet with Mason Morgan after Brendan Gilbert makes a complaint against him . They opt to fire Mason from his hospital placement . Oliver Brisbane Todd Goddard 23 October Nurse Lee Adam Dunn Nurse Lee assists Tori Morgan in her attempts to resuscitate Beth Ellis . Pete Sands Benjamin Dillon - Smith Pete is Mick Jennings ' caseworker , who asks Mick 's mother Irene Roberts to visit him at the halfway house . As he shows Irene to Mick 's room , Pete informs her that Mick has been involved in an altercation . 24 -- 25 October Curtis Taylor Wiese Curtis approaches Ziggy Astoni in a bar and asks if he can buy her a drink , but she rejects his offer . He then answers her phone and speaks to Olivia Fraser Richards , before Ziggy takes it back . She later joins Curtis and his friend Macca for a round of drinks and Curtis spikes her beer . When she attempts to leave , Ziggy finds herself unable to walk properly and Curtis takes her outside to an alley way , where he attempts to assault her . He runs off when Brody Morgan approaches . 24 October Macca Zac Deane Macca tells his friend Curtis that he wants to leave the bar they are in , but later joins him and Ziggy Astoni for drinks . 1 -- 22 November Diana Walford Sarah Chadwick Diana is Maggie Astoni 's mother , who turns up in the Bay to visit her family , after Maggie asks her for money to bail out her husband Ben Astoni from jail . Diana senses the family are keeping things from her and her granddaughter Coco Astoni reveals the personal struggles they have all faced . Diana vows to stay on for a week . When she interferes in Ben 's plans for his and Maggie 's wedding anniversary , Ben says he will not put up with it any more and insults her . He apologises to Diana the following day , and asks for her help in organising a vow renewal ceremony . Diana overhears the family discussing how much she is annoying them and when they are going to ask her to leave . She later admits to Ben that her former husband , Richard , has a 27 - year - old girlfriend , and that she feels humiliated and lonely . Maggie later tells Diana that Richard is getting married . Diana decides to sell up and move to the Bay , but changes her mind when Coco offers to stay with her for a while . 6 November -- 28 February 2018 Axel Boyd Matthew Pearce Axel meets Olivia Fraser Richards at Salt , after she complains that her dresses are being sold on the fashion website he works for . He apologises and explains that when he learned that a low level designer copied her designs , they were fired . He then offers Olivia a deal to buy one of her designs . When Olivia meets with him again to discuss the contract , Axel invites her to the company headquarters in Melbourne . After the trip , Olivia meets with Axel to show him some new designs . She introduces him to her boyfriend Hunter King , who attempts to ask questions about the contract , but Olivia shuts him down . Axel later tells Olivia that he thinks Hunter will hold her back . When Axel arranges a photoshoot and interview for Olivia at Salt , he suggests that Hunter leaves , as he is a distraction . Axel flatters Olivia over drinks and then kisses her . Olivia tells him their relationship should stay purely business , as she loves Hunter . After learning that Olivia meet with a rep from another website , he tells her that their deal is terminated and if she sells her designs to a competitor , she will be sued . Olivia goes to Axel 's motel room to apologise and they have sex . Axel then offers to talk to his bosses and smooth things over . He later tells Olivia that his bosses have agreed to give her a second chance and they work on more designs together . 9 November Judy Lawson Annie Byron Judy comes to Summer Bay Auto to pick up her car . Mason Morgan makes her tea , while they wait for Justin Morgan to return . Ziggy Astoni refuses to accept payment from Judy , telling her it was only a loose exhaust bracket , and Judy leaves happy . 16 November -- 5 December Boyd Easton Steve Le Marquand Boyd comes to Willow Harris 's home and demands his money back . Willow admits that she does not have it , but will get it to him soon . They are interrupted by Justin Morgan , who tells Boyd that he found his money and gave it to the police . Boyd tells Willow to get him the money and he leaves . Boyd later shows up at Justin 's house looking for Willow , and he gives them 24 hours to give him his money . Boyd chases Willow to Summer Bay Auto and trashes the garage when he can not find her or Justin . Boyd later pushes Willow 's father down some stairs and admits it to Justin , who provokes Boyd into beating him up . Boyd is soon arrested . 16 November Sidney Cheng Lucy Goleby Sidney is a lawyer hired by Martin Ashford , Irene Roberts and Leah Patterson to help them in a custody case against Mick Jennings . 27 November -- DI Will Shepherd Josef Ber DI Shepherd leads a special task force investigation into Dennis Novak and the local police corruption case . He pulls Robbo in for questioning about his actions on the day Novak kidnapped Constable Kat Chapman . Robbo tells Shepherd and DI Vincent that he did not report the incident straight away , as he went back to the wreckers yard to find Novak , but Novak had gone . Shepherd and Vincent plan to accompany Kat to the city , so she can testify in the corruption trial , but Robbo convinces them to let Kat do it via video - link . Shepherd returns when Novak 's body is discovered . He questions Kat and Robbo . 28 November -- DI Liz Vincent Natasha Beaumont 28 November Truck Driver Steven Riley The truck driver attempts to deliver goods to the bait shop , but is briefly stopped and his truck searched by police . Robbo hides a phone underneath the truck . 30 November Naomi Sabrina Brandon Naomi is a stylist , who helps Olivia Fraser Richards get ready for a fashion showcase . Tulli Ayeshah Rose Axel Boyd introduces Tulli to Olivia Fraser Richards , and she compliments Olivia on her fashion designs . Gabriella Sarah Jane Kelly Gabriella is the creative director for The Find , a fashion website that Olivia Fraser Richards designs for . She introduces Gabriella to her boyfriend Hunter King and Mason Morgan . Prosecutor Monette Lee The prosecutor in the trial for police corruption questions Kat Chapman about why she wanted to testify via video - link . 4 December Ambulance Officer Emily Taylor The ambulance officer brings Russell Harris to the Northern Districts Hospital and informs Tori Morgan that he had a fall and has suffered a laceration to the head . 4 December -- Russell Harris Monroe Reimers Russell is Willow Harris ' father . He suffers from Alzheimer 's disease , and is rushed to hospital after being pushed down some stairs . When he wakes up , Russell mistakes his daughter for his wife and Justin Morgan for his brother Bobby . Months later , Russell takes Willow 's car , which previously belonged to him , and drives to the beach . Colby Thorne finds him and calls Willow , who decides to take Russell out for a drive at Colby 's suggestion . 5 December Trend Rep Caroline Attwood The Trend rep meets with Olivia Fraser Richards about her fashion designs , and she tells Olivia that Trend look forward to doing business with her . 6 December Forensic Officer Leanne Mauro The forensic officer takes photographs of Dennis Novak 's body that has washed up in a cove . She tells Sergeant Phillip McCarthy that it is difficult to determine how long the body has been there . 13 December Marli Lewis Sophie Cook Marli is the head of fashion brand The Find . She meets with Olivia Fraser Richards to discuss her new designs and whether she has a future with the company following her meeting with another label . Olivia apologises for her mistake and Marli welcomes her back . 14 December Mark Clayton Adams Mark meets with Willow Harris at Salt to discuss signing up for a gym membership . While training together , Mark flirts with and attempts to kiss Willow . Justin Morgan walks in and punches Mark after being goaded by him .