The concept of eugenics had been put forward in 1883 by Francis Galton , who also coined the name . The trend first became popular in Europe , but also found proponents in the United States by the start of the 20th century . Indiana passed the first eugenic sterilization statute ( 1907 ) , but it was legally flawed . To remedy this situation , Harry Laughlin of the Eugenics Record Office ( ERO ) at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory , designed a model eugenic law that was reviewed by legal experts . In 1924 the Commonwealth of Virginia adopted a statute authorizing the compulsory sterilization of the intellectually disabled for the purpose of eugenics . This 1924 statute was closely based on Laughlin 's model . Looking to determine if the new law would pass a legal challenge , on September 10 , 1924 Dr. Albert Sidney Priddy , superintendent of the Virginia State Colony for Epileptics and Feebleminded , filed a petition to his Board of Directors to sterilize Carrie Buck , an 18 - year - old patient at his institution who he claimed had a mental age of 9 . Priddy maintained that Buck represented a genetic threat to society . According to Priddy , Buck 's 52 - year - old mother possessed a mental age of 8 and had a record of prostitution and immorality . She had three children without good knowledge of their parentage . Carrie , one of these children , had been adopted and attended school for five years , reaching the level of sixth grade . However , according to Priddy , she had eventually proved to be `` incorrigible '' and eventually gave birth to an illegitimate child . Her adopted family had committed her to the State Colony as `` feeble - minded '' , no longer feeling capable of caring for her . It was later discovered that Carrie 's pregnancy was not caused by any `` immorality '' on her own part . In the summer of 1923 , while her adoptive mother was away `` on account of some illness , '' her adoptive mother 's nephew raped Carrie , and Carrie 's later commitment has been seen as an attempt by the family to save their reputation .