Jenna Marshall ( Tammin Sursok ) ( seasons 1 -- 5 , 7 ) is Toby 's younger stepsister . Jenna was accidentally blinded after Alison threw a firecracker into Toby 's shed , intending to play a prank on him . At the time , Jenna had been in a physical relationship with Toby ( it is later discovered that Jenna had forced Toby into the relationship , threatening to tell their parents he had forced himself on her if he did not ) . Jenna attended a school for the blind in Philadelphia before returning a year later when Alison 's body is found . This leads to conflicts with the girls , who feel guilty about what they did to Jenna , and having let Alison pin the blame on Toby . Prior to Alison 's death , she and Jenna had been rivals after Jenna turned down Alison 's offer of friendship . Jenna was engaged in a power struggle with Alison before her death ; after Jenna 's accident , Alison visited her and blackmailed Jenna with the knowledge of her affair with Toby . Jenna claims to know `` exactly what kind of person ( Alison ) really was , '' hinting that she knows things about Alison that the girls did not . Jenna was a part of the N.A.T. club and later became romantically involved with Garrett Reynolds , as they both worked to `` take down '' the Liars . However , Jenna eventually breaks up with Garrett , and enters into a relationship with Noel Kahn . In the second season , Jenna undergoes surgery to fix her eyesight , and subsequently lies about the success of the surgery , leading everyone to believe she is still blind . The Liars discover that Jenna can see after Emily remembers being in Jenna 's car , leading them to confront her . The Liars agree to keep her sight a secret ; however , Jenna then reveals to everyone that she can `` now '' see . An accidental witness to Lyndon James ' kidnapping of Maya , she leaves town after he discovers this . She returns in the Season 3 finale episode . It is then shown that she is in a relationship with Shana , to whom she reveals that her eyesight is getting worse and she will eventually lose her vision again . She is also linked to Melissa and Darren Wilden . In Season 4 , it is revealed Melissa ordered Shana and Jenna to go to the lodge to spy on the Liars to see whom they were meeting , and that they did n't start the fire , Wilden did . At Wilden 's funeral , she is shown wearing her sunglasses and holding hands with a man . It is revealed that man was a pilot named Nigel Wright , who flew Red Coat the night of the fire . He claims it was CeCe Drake . Later , he is seen making coffee for someone and says he 's sorry and that he `` screwed up '' . He also refers to this person as `` babe '' , and she is revealed to be none other than Jenna , as we see Jenna 's glasses and cane . Jenna was nearly drowned by `` A '' / Red Coat at Emily 's birthday party . Shana seemed to believe it was CeCe and left town . Jenna returns in the 100th episode where she is revealed to be a part of Mona Vanderwaal 's army and is friends with Sydney Driscoll . It is also revealed that Jenna truly cared for Shana . Sydney was volunteering at Jenna 's blind school and when Jenna found out that Alison was returning she called Sydney for help . After Mona 's supposed death Sydney and Jenna join Ali 's army , believing that she was the one who killed Mona and fearing her . Jenna returns to Rosewood after Charlotte DiLaurentis ' murder in 2017 and is now working for Uber A , as well working with Noel , Sydney , and Sara Harvey . It is also revealed that she was a part of the A-Team . She reveals that she was actually friends with Charlotte after her admission to Welby and was helping her track down Mary Drake . Jenna also knew Archer Dunhill and was working with him , as well . Jenna and Noel lure the Liars to a blind school to kill them , but their plan fails when Noel is killed and Jenna is knocked out by Mary Drake . Uber A rescues Jenna and takes her to an unknown lair , where she was assisting them in their final endgame . After the one year time jump , Jenna became a Life Skills Teacher at Rosewood High . She met with Alex Drake ( who was pretending to be Spencer ) and recognized her smell from when she was working for her . She called Toby and informed him that she did n't think Spencer was Spencer , leading them to discover the truth about the twins . Garrett Reynolds ( Yani Gellman ) ( seasons 1 -- 3 ) is a police officer investigating the case of Alison DiLaurentis ' death , who is initially assigned to trail Spencer , a suspect in Alison 's death . Although he appears to be sympathetic towards the girls , in reality he is secretly dating and in an alliance with Jenna Marshall . He was a member of N.A.T along with Jason and Ian , whom he went to high school with . Garrett and Jenna broke up . Aria and Spencer see Garrett watching them after they talk to the guy who Alison owed money to prior to her murder . Garrett then gets arrested for Alison 's murder in front of Melissa . Later in season 3 , Garrett is willing to tell Spencer everything he knows and tells her he will leave town right after . As he begins to tell her , they get interrupted . Aria is then seen trapped in a box , next to Garrett 's dead body . Anne Sullivan ( Annabeth Gish ) ( seasons 2 -- 3 , 6 ) is a therapist whom the girls are forced to see to deal with Alison 's death . She is visited by A and attempts to reveal A 's identity to the girls ; A subsequently finds a way to keep her quiet . She returns once Mona ( `` A '' ) has been caught and explains that Mona threatened the life of her son to get her to disappear . She then is the one to explain Mona 's mental issues to the girls in the jail before Mona is put in a mental facility . She returns in season 3 , relocating in Rosewood . She still helps the girls when they have problems , such as talking to Spencer when she was in Radley . Barry Maple ( Jim Titus ) ( seasons 1 -- 7 ) is a local police officer who is good friends with the parents of Rosewood . In a deleted scene for `` Game Over , Charles '' , it is revealed that Barry actually helped CeCe Drake / `` A '' escape the night she was detained in `` A Is for Answers '' . Barry told CeCe to hit him hard and take the car . CeCe suspects that her mother , Jessica , gave Barry an offer `` he could n't refuse '' . Arthur Hackett ( John O'Brien ) ( seasons 3 -- 5 , 7 ) is the vice principal at Rosewood High . Hackett is reintroduced to the series in the seventh season . He elists Emily to work as a swimming coach . Dianne Fitzgerald ( Mary Page Keller ) ( season 3 , 7 ) is the mother of Ezra and Wesley Fitzgerald . She is a rich and ruthless woman . Due to her controlling attitude , she is estranged from Ezra . On Season 7 , Dianne returns to Ezra 's wedding with Aria .