The song was used in the 1989 film The Preppie Murder directed by John Herzfeld The song was used as a theme for supercouple Jack and Jennifer in the soap opera Days of Our Lives . The song was used in the Brett Ratner film , The Family Man , the Ridley Scott film , Matchstick Men , and the David Lynch film , Wild at Heart ; each starring Nicolas Cage . The song was used in two episodes of Beverly Hills , 90210 `` One Man and a Baby '' from Season 1 and `` Wildfire '' from Season 2 . It was also used in its spin - off 90210 in the season 3 episode `` How Much Is That Liam in the Window '' . The song was used in two episodes of Friends Season 2 ; `` The One with the Prom Video '' ( 2x14 ) and `` The One Where Ross and Rachel ... You Know '' ( 2x15 ) . In Flight of the Conchords , the character Dave states that `` Women like three things : Men in Kilts , Southern Comfort and Chris Isaak 's Wicked Game . '' The song was used in The Mentalist in the season 4 finale , `` The Crimson Hat '' . The song was used in the 1991 episode of Top Gear where Jeremy Clarkson tested the W140 Mercedes - Benz S - Class The song was used in the 1992 film Leaving Normal directed by Edward Zwick . The song has been used in the soap operas The Young and the Restless , One Life to Live and General Hospital . The song was used in the UK commercial advertising the Jaguar X-type in 2001 . The master recording song was featured in Konami 's rebooted version of their singing video game called Karaoke Revolution . The song was covered by South African singer Nicholis Louw in 2005 . The song was covered by the band HIM In 1997 on their album Greatest Lovesongs Vol. 666 , and they subsequently released the video in 1998 . Singer Rebecca Ferguson covered it on the seventh season of The X Factor . The song was covered by Pink on her 2013 tour , The Truth About Love Tour . The song was covered by Phillip Phillips and is available on the deluxe edition of his debut album , The World from the Side of the Moon . John Pritchard auditioned with the song on series 2 of The Voice UK in 2013 , and will.i.am turned his chair to become his coach . The song was covered by Emika and is available on her second album , Dva . Emika 's cover was used in the fifth episode of The Blacklist , `` The Courier '' . A cover of the song by Coves was also used in 2013 in the trailers for the BBC TV series The White Queen . The song was used on episode 9 of series 3 of Top Gear at the beginning of the Chrysler Crossfire review . The Australian band Karnivool incorporated a portion of Wicked Game into an in - concert performance of their own song , `` Lifelike '' , during the period 2005 - 2006 . The song was used in the 2014 revival of A Streetcar Named Desire starring Gillian Anderson , Ben Foster , and Vanessa Kirby . Singer Taylor John Williams covered it on the seventh season of The Voice . The song was frequently used as bumper music on Coast to Coast AM with Art Bell . The song was featured in the TV series Moone Boy . The song was used in the TV series Made in Chelsea . The song was covered by Lykke Li at the David Lynch benefit concert in April 2015 The song was covered in 2013 by Parra for Cuva and retitled `` Wicked Games '' , sung by vocalist Anna Naklab . In 2014 , the Chilean band La Ley released a Spanish - language version of the song , titled `` Sin Ti '' ( Without You ) . This song was covered by Three Days Grace on the deluxe version of their One - X album . In 2015 , the song was covered by David Cook on his album Digital Vein . James Vincent McMorrow 's version appeared in the trailer for the sixth season of Game of Thrones . The song was covered by Canadian rock band Bike Thiefs on May 11 , 2016 In 2016 a cover of this song appeared in the episode `` The Crown v Atwood '' in the TV series Guilt . The song was used in an episode of the TV series `` Pretty Little Liars . '' The music video was parodied in an extremely disturbing fashion by Barstool Sports ' Dave Portnoy in 2010 .