Big band trumpeter Harry James did a cover of the piece in 1941 . `` Flight of the Bumblebee '' was featured , along with other compositions by Rimsky - Korsakov , in the fictional 1947 biopic Song of Scheherazade . A piano - based version by B. Bumble and the Stingers reached # 21 on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1961 . Japanese band Takeshi Terauchi & Bunnys recorded an instrumental rock cover of this song on their 1967 album , Let 's Go Unmei . The song was featured in the first episode of The Muppet Show , in which Gonzo attempts to eat a tire on stage with the song playing in the background . The radio program The Green Hornet used `` Flight of the Bumblebee '' as its theme music , blended with a hornet buzz created on a theremin . The music became so strongly identified with the show and the character that it was retained as the theme for the later TV series . This version was orchestrated by Billy May and conducted by Lionel Newman , with trumpet solo by Al Hirt , in a jazz style nicknamed `` Green Bee '' . This particular version was later featured in the 2003 film Kill Bill . Extreme 's instrumental piece `` Flight of the Wounded Bumblebee , '' featuring guitarist Nuno Bettencourt 's advanced virtuoso skills , is heavily inspired by Rimsky - Korsakov 's original and bears a similar name , but is in fact a distinct work and not merely a re-arrangement . Manowar bassist Joey DeMaio recorded a version titled `` Sting of the Bumblebee , '' played entirely on bass guitar . Trans - Siberian Orchestra has included the piece into the song A Last Illusion on its Beethoven 's Last Night album . The video game Rayman uses an altered version of the piece during a chase sequence in which the title character rides a mosquito . This version gradually increases in tempo . The Great Kat recorded a thrash metal version on her 1990 album Beethoven on Speed . The 1993 animated series Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog samples the tune as part of the show 's opening theme , combining it with `` In the Hall of the Mountain King '' and the theme from the original Sonic the Hedgehog video game . The music inspired Walt Disney to have a bumblebee featured in a segment of Fantasia that would sound as if it were flying around a movie theater . Although this did not appear in the final film , it anticipated the eventual invention of surround sound . However , in his film Melody Time , Disney included an animated segment using Freddy Martin 's `` Bumble Boogie '' , a jazz arrangement of the piece . For Guinness world record of fastest guitarist and violinist , `` Flight of the Bumblebee '' must be played flawlessly at an increased speed . The current guitar world record is 620 bpm held by John Taylor . In the Scott Hicks film Shine , Geoffrey Rush 's character David Helfgott wanders out of a rainy night into a cafe and amazes the few patrons there by playing a piano version of `` Flight of the Bumblebee . '' Bob Dylan wrote and recorded a song called `` It 's the Flight of the Bumblebee '' with The Band during the Basement Tapes sessions that quotes the original during the piano intro .