Superintendent Ellen Riggs ( voiced by Anjelica Huston ) -- The superintendent of Pearl Bailey High School . In the episode `` A Ward Show , '' Roger convinces Riggs to fire Principal Brian Lewis when he reveals that Lewis is using Steve for his accounting and other things . In `` The Worst Stan '' , Stan hooks up Riggs with Lewis in marriage so that he can be Brian 's best man . Riggs only wants to marry Brian because she believes that marrying him will dispel rumors about her and allow her to achieve her ultimate goal of city comptroller . She achieves this when she ends up marrying Tracey Bryant , Lewis 's former prison cellmate , after she knocks out Stan . She is shown taking Tracey home , becoming pregnant with his child , and winning the campaign to become comptroller . Principal Brian Lewis ( voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson ) -- The principal of Pearl Bailey High School which Steve and his friends attend . Portrayed as an aggressive borderline psychotic with a checkered past , he displays a multitude of violent tendencies and a flippant attitude , and his dedication to the school is questionable . When Steve is the Student Body President , he commandeers Principal Lewis ' office , as the student body president is entitled to secure any school grounds he needs . Lewis does not mind , since in doing this Steve proves that he can read and that the system works . He later allows Stan to teach a `` morally upright '' sexual education class , but only Steve is signed up for it . Lewis is a member of the `` Illuminutty '' -- an organization revolving around a supposed conspiracy involving the invention of peanut butter . When presented with a tip that Steve is in possession of narcotics , he displays detailed knowledge of the source and method of cutting said drugs , and concludes that a specific drug lord named Esteban Montilla is back in business and tells Steve to tell him that El Lobo Negrón ( which translates to `` The Black Wolf '' ) sends his regards . He is the father of one of Lisa Silver 's best friends , Janet , but rarely acknowledges this . When Steve asks him why he never mentions it , he says that he is `` ashamed of her for more reasons than you can imagine '' . Lewis keeps $500 hanging out of his pocket to make the students think he is rich . Lewis has taken part in war reenactments , including a Vietnam War reenactment . In `` 100 A.D. '' , Principal Lewis is among the characters that pursue Hayley and Jeff for the bounty that Stan offers . In `` You Debt Your Life '' , he explicitly states that he used to run cocaine . This statement is accidentally made over the school PA system . Lewis ' questionable past is often the source of comedy and subplots for the show , such as when Lewis is shown to own an aquarium shop in addition to being a principal . Lewis ' family was apparently the inspiration for the sitcom Diff'rent Strokes according to the episode `` The Worst Stan '' . Schmuley `` Snot '' Lonstein ( voiced by Curtis Armstrong ) -- Steve 's best friend with whom he shares a bromance , . Snot is a mustached and acne - covered Jew . He is physically modeled after his voice actor 's character 's appearance from the movie Revenge of the Nerds , as Dudley `` Booger '' Dawson . Since Snot was a toddler and throughout much of the series , he had a crush on Hayley ; however , in `` The Missing Kink '' , when Hayley finally succumbed to Snot 's advances and began to desire him romantically , Snot lost interest in her and deceived her into thinking he was gay , claiming it was the act of pursuing her that aroused him . He speaks Klingon , and can read Quenya . Like Steve , he has a fetish for octogenarian women . His parents are poor , as they could not afford a bar mitzvah celebration , although Steve pays for one in an attempt to apologize when he is falsely accused of theft . His parents have him see a therapist who is implied to engage with him inappropriately and romantically . Steve reveals that his father left Snot 's family and may have been abusive towards his mother . He is generally considered Steve 's best friend but is quite fickle in this role , having cheated with Steve 's girlfriends and pelted him with apples during a period where Steve was in a brace for scoliosis in order to gain social acceptance . When Snot and Steve were younger , they solved mysteries together . He refused to help Steve figure out the mystery , as he quit when `` the case of the missing bike horn turned into a double rape homicide '' . Snot appears to be the least eccentric member of Steve 's clique . It is also revealed in the episode `` Wiener of our Discontent '' that he can somewhat understand Toshi . Toshi exclaims `` Oh , my God '' , and Snot replies `` I think you mean ' oh , my Godzilla ' . '' Toshi Yoshida ( 吉田 慧 , Yoshida Toshi ) ( voiced by Daisuke Suzuki ) -- Steve 's Japanese American sansei friend . Though he can understand English perfectly , he always speaks Japanese with subtitles . A running gag is everyone misunderstanding Toshi , assuming he has said something completely different from or opposite to what he has actually said . Toshi studies Russian in order to impress an attractive mail order bride named Svetlana in `` Of Ice and Men '' . He is mischievous , and sometimes , cruel and anti-American . Toshi has expressed the desire to kill Steve as his greatest wish , and he claims to have killed before . Toshi used a katana to kill a group of serial murderers who were chasing the Smith family in `` Best Little Horror House in Langley Falls '' . Toshi has demonstrated that he is the only character outside the Smith family able to see through Roger 's disguises , describing him as `` the alien in the wig '' . Toshi has a sister named Akiko , who acts as a translator . Despite his apparent inability to speak English , his mother , father , and sister speak fluent English , ( with his mother even mentioning that she does not even know Japanese ) . Toshi spoke English for the first time in the series in the episode `` A Piñata Named Desire '' after Snot angrily smacked him and demanded that he learn English . He attempted to say `` Eat my balls ! '' , but his heavy accent resulted in it sounding like `` Eat my bowls ! '' , which was reflected in the subtitles . He later sang part of `` Yah Mo B There '' by James Ingram and Michael McDonald on the episode `` Home Wrecker '' . Additionally he briefly spoke English in the episode `` Independent Movie '' when he asked Steve , Snot , and Barry to leave him alone in a corn field during a soul searching session . Barry Robinson ( voiced by Eddie Kaye Thomas for the normal voice , Craig Ferguson for the evil voice ) -- Steve 's morbidly obese friend , who has an inarticulate , strident , and sloppy vocal quality . Stan disdains Barry , often impulsively yelling insults at him about his weight without even knowing why . Like Snot , Barry can speak Klingon and seems to be able to read Quenya . Barry apparently has a fetish for Miss Piggy . His borderline mentally retarded and innocent personality is the result of powerful anti-psychotic pills . In `` one episode '' after stopping his medication regimen , Barry turns into a deranged and demonic mastermind , speaking in a low - pitched voice `` like Gary Oldman '' , framing Steve for the destruction of Stan 's beloved commemorative plates . Barry did this in an attempt to replace Steve within his immediate family . Barry 's madness grows worse over the episode , culminating with him trying to eliminate everyone that might get between himself and Stan . Steve ultimately tricks Barry into taking his medication , reverting him back to his usual self . This facet of his personality is hinted at when he helps Snot and Toshi beat up a drugged Steve and screams that they should kill Steve 's whole family . Barry describes his parents as ignorant and implies that they engage in bondage sex play and smoke pot . Other statements about his parents imply that they abuse him or are negligent , making him sleep in their basement and often forgetting he is their son ( and that they even have a son ) . Akiko Yoshida ( 吉田 暁子 , Yoshida Akiko ) ( voiced by Grey DeLisle in 2009 , Grace Park in 2010 -- present ) -- Akiko is Toshi 's younger sister . She first appears in `` American Dream Factory '' as a young child with no dialogue when Toshi brings her to audition as a drummer for Steve 's Band `` The Asstones '' but on her next appearance in `` Weiner of Our Discontent '' , she is a teenager , presumably in the same grade as Toshi and Steve . She refereed the hot dog eating contest between Toshi and Steve in the same episode . She speaks perfect English and occasionally translates for Toshi . Akiko dressed as Chun - Li from the video game series Street Fighter for Halloween in `` Best Little Horror House in Langley Falls '' . When Steve develops a crush on Akiko , they are forced to flee from Toshi until Steve convinces him that he is being too possessive of her . Thinking he can open up to Akiko , Steve is stunned when she announces she has a crush on a nine - year - old named Doug because he is a great dancer ; however , in a later episode `` Spelling Bee My Baby '' , Akiko developed feelings for Steve and vice versa . Debbie Hyman ( voiced by Lizzy Caplan ) -- An overweight goth girl and Steve 's main crush . When she and Steve begin dating it causes Stan to become anorexic because he is disgusted by her obesity . Steve breaks up with her after he realizes she is causing it , but they reunite when he realizes it did not help . Stan accepts her after she demonstrates prowess with firearms , but is disliked by Francine . Debbie appears in `` Iced , Iced Babies '' , though she reportedly breaks up with Steve by the end . She and Steve get back together in `` Escape from Pearl Bailey '' , where Steve gets Debbie to run for Student Council President against Lisa Silver . Debbie loses when an insulting page of her on the Internet is shown around school . Steve , thinking that Lisa and her friends did it , gets revenge on them . When he tells Debbie she breaks up with him , as she does not believe in vengeance , it turns out that Steve 's friends made the slam page because they view her as monopolizing his time and everyone in the school goes after them . They are caught by Debbie 's clique , who tells them to let Steve go and makes up with him . She tries to get Steve to come with her , but he says he wants to stay by his friends . Debbie lets them all go while she and the other goths distract the student body . In `` Bar Mitzvah Shuffle '' , Debbie falls for Snot 's Bar Mitzvah study buddy Etan because she says he is more mature than Steve . Steve sabotages Etan 's Bar Mitzvah , hoping to prove that Etan is less mature than she thinks he is . However , Snot is blamed for the sabotage . When Steve admits to sabotaging the party before the Jewish Court , Debbie is also displeased with this , and permanently ends her relationship with Steve . Lisa Silver ( voiced by Carmen Electra in the pilot , Elizabeth Banks in later appearances ) -- Head cheerleader and most popular girl in school . Her best friends are Janet Lewis and Amy . She first appears in the pilot episode , where Steve tries to ask her out but she rejects him . When Steve becomes Student Council President they date , but she dumps him when he tries to kiss her , and Stan has her family deported . She reappears in `` 1,600 Candles '' when Steve successfully asks her out to the prom after his confidence is boosted by the appearance of his first pubic hair . In `` Escape from Pearl Bailey , '' Lisa wins re-election as Student Council President , defeating Debbie , and Steve infects her with oral herpes , believing her responsible for a slam page that cost Debbie the election only to learn with humiliation that his friends were behind it with the belief that Steve deserves someone else more worthy of his time . Vince Chung ( voiced by John Cho ) -- A very popular Asian student part of the school swim team and one of the school 's many known bullies . Vince is introduced in `` Helping Handis '' in which he temporarily befriends Steve , but only due to being attracted to Steve 's huge breasts from steroids . In later seasons , Vince Chung remained a frequent character , making a wide variety major and minor appearances both with and without lines , primarily in cases to bully Steve and his friends . Lindsey Coolidge ( voiced by Terri Lyn Rodriguez ) -- A cheerleader and one of several girls that Steve tries to impress . In her first appearance she remarks that Steve is more fun to be around than she expected . However , she discovers Roger 's secret identity as an alien and has to have her memories wiped by Stan . Later , Lindsey states that she likes guys who engage in risky behavior , resulting in Steve accidentally blowing his thumb off with a firecracker . After the accident she lets Steve touch her breast , but when he admits that he can not feel anything ( due to the anesthesia in his hand ) she storms off . Steve learns to play the cello in an effort to impress Lindsey , who he describes as `` a cello slut '' . Steve is successful , but brushes Lindsey off after a recital to attend to an injured cat . Lindsey makes several cameo appearances in later episodes .