Alzheimer 's Disease : A study published in Archives of Neurology in February 2003 suggested that the intake of both trans fats and saturated fats promote the development of Alzheimer disease , although not confirmed in an animal model . It has been found that trans fats impaired memory and learning in middle - age rats . The trans - fat eating rats ' brains had fewer proteins critical to healthy neurological function . Inflammation in and around the hippocampus , the part of the brain responsible for learning and memory . These are the exact types of changes normally seen at the onset of Alzheimer 's , but seen after six weeks , even though the rats were still young . Cancer : There is no scientific consensus that consumption of trans fats significantly increases cancer risks across the board . The American Cancer Society states that a relationship between trans fats and cancer `` has not been determined . '' One study has found a positive connection between trans fat and prostate cancer . However , a larger study found a correlation between trans fats and a significant decrease in high - grade prostate cancer . An increased intake of trans fatty acids may raise the risk of breast cancer by 75 % , suggest the results from the French part of the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition . Diabetes : There is a growing concern that the risk of type 2 diabetes increases with trans fat consumption . However , consensus has not been reached . For example , one study found that risk is higher for those in the highest quartile of trans fat consumption . Another study has found no diabetes risk once other factors such as total fat intake and BMI were accounted for . Obesity : Research indicates that trans fat may increase weight gain and abdominal fat , despite a similar caloric intake . A 6 - year experiment revealed that monkeys fed a trans fat diet gained 7.2 % of their body weight , as compared to 1.8 % for monkeys on a mono - unsaturated fat diet . Although obesity is frequently linked to trans fat in the popular media , this is generally in the context of eating too many calories ; there is not a strong scientific consensus connecting trans fat and obesity , although the 6 - year experiment did find such a link , concluding that `` under controlled feeding conditions , long - term TFA consumption was an independent factor in weight gain . TFAs enhanced intra-abdominal deposition of fat , even in the absence of caloric excess , and were associated with insulin resistance , with evidence that there is impaired post-insulin receptor binding signal transduction . '' Liver dysfunction : Trans fats are metabolized differently by the liver than other fats and interfere with delta 6 desaturase . Delta 6 desaturase is an enzyme involved in converting essential fatty acids to arachidonic acid and prostaglandins , both of which are important to the functioning of cells . Infertility in women : One 2007 study found , `` Each 2 % increase in the intake of energy from trans unsaturated fats , as opposed to that from carbohydrates , was associated with a 73 % greater risk of ovulatory infertility ... '' . Major depressive disorder : Spanish researchers analysed the diets of 12,059 people over six years and found those who ate the most trans fats had a 48 per cent higher risk of depression than those who did not eat trans fats . One mechanism may be trans - fats ' substitution for docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) levels in the orbitofrontal cortex ( OFC ) . Very high intake of trans - fatty acids ( 43 % of total fat ) in mice from 2 to 16 months of age was associated with lowered DHA levels in the brain ( p = 0.001 ) . When the brains of 15 major depressive subjects who had committed suicide were examined post-mortem and compared against 27 age - matched controls , the suicidal brains were found to have 16 % less ( male average ) to 32 % less ( female average ) DHA in the OFC . The OFC controls reward , reward expectation , and empathy ( all of which are reduced in depressive mood disorders ) and regulates the limbic system . Behavioral irritability and aggression : a 2012 observational analysis of subjects of an earlier study found a strong relation between dietary trans fat acids and self - reported behavioral aggression and irritability , suggesting but not establishing causality . Diminished memory : In a 2015 article , researchers re-analyzing results from the 1999 - 2005 UCSD Statin Study argue that `` greater dietary trans fatty acid consumption is linked to worse word memory in adults during years of high productivity , adults age < 45 '' .