The story is the basis of the similarly titled traditional British pantomime , wherein the Giant is certainly a villain , Jack 's mother the Dame , and Jack the Principal Boy . Jack of Jack and the Beanstalk is the protagonist of the comic book Jack of Fables , a spin - off of Fables , which also features other elements from the story , such as giant beanstalks and giants living in the clouds . Gilligan 's Island did a adaptation / dream sequence in which Gilligan tries to take oranges from a giant Skipper and fails ; ( the part of the little Gilligan chased by the giant was played by Bob Denver 's 7 year old son Patrick Denver ) Roald Dahl rewrote the story in a more modern and gruesome way in his book Revolting Rhymes ( 1982 ) , where Jack initially refuses to climb the beanstalk and his mother is thus eaten when she ascends to pick the golden leaves at the top , with Jack recovering the leaves himself after having a thorough wash so that the giant can not smell him . In the 2016 television adaptation of Revolting Rhymes , Jack lives next door to Cinderella and is in love with her . The story of Jack and the Beanstalk is also referenced in Dahl 's The BFG , in which the evil giants are all afraid of the `` giant - killer '' Jack , who is said to kill giants with his fearsome beanstalk ( although none of the giants appear to know how Jack uses it against them , the context of a nightmare one of the giants has about Jack suggesting that they think he wields the beanstalk as a weapon ) . James Still published Jack and the Wonder Beans ( 1977 , republished 1996 ) an Appalachian variation on the Jack and the Beanstalk tale . Jack trades his old cow to a gypsy for three beans that are guaranteed to feed him for his entire life . It has been adapted as a play for performance by children . In 1973 the story was adapted , as The Goodies and the Beanstalk , by the BBC television series The Goodies . An arcade video game , Jack the Giantkiller , was released by Cinematronics in 1982 and is based on the story . Players control Jack , and must retrieve a series of treasures -- a harp , a sack of gold coins , a golden goose and a princess -- and eventually defeat the giant by chopping down the beanstalk . An episode of Challenge of the Superfriends titled `` Fairy Tale of Doom '' has the Legion of Doom using Toyman 's newest invention , a projector like device to trap the Superfriends inside pages of children 's fairy tales . Toyman traps Hawkman in this story . An episode of The Super Mario Bros. Super Show ! , entitled `` Mario and the Beanstalk '' , does a retelling with Bowser as the giant ( there is no explanation as to how he becomes a giant ) . In The Magic School Bus episode `` Gets Planted '' , the class put on a school production of Jack and the Beanstalk , with Phoebe starring as the beanstalk after Ms. Frizzle turned her into a bean plant . Jack and Beanstalk was featured in Happily Ever After : Fairy Tales for Every Child where Jack is voiced by Wayne Collins and the giant is voiced by Tone Loc . The story is in an African - American style . Stephen Sondheim 's 1986 musical Into the Woods ( and the 2014 film of the same name ) , features Jack , originally portrayed by Ben Wright , along with several other fairy tale characters . In the second half of the musical , the giant 's wife climbs down a second ( inadvertently planted ) beanstalk to exact revenge for her husband 's death , furious at Jack 's betrayal of her hospitality. The Giantess then causes the deaths of Jack 's mother and other important characters before being finally killed by Jack . Bart Simpson plays the role of the main character in a Simpsons video game The Simpsons : Bart & the Beanstalk . ABC 's Once Upon a Time debuts their spin on the tale in the episode `` Tiny '' of Season Two , where Jack , now a female named Jacqueline ( known as Jack ) is played by Cassidy Freeman and the giant named Anton is played by Jorge Garcia . In this adaptation , Jack is portrayed as a villainous character . In Season Seven , a new iteration of Jack ( portrayed by Nathan Parsons ) is a recurring character and Henry Mills ' first friend in the New Enchanted Forest . Hé débuts in `` The Eighth Witch '' . In Hyperion Heights , he is cursed as Nick Branson and is a lawyer and Lucy 's fake father . The story was adapted in 2012 by software maker Net Entertainment and made into a slot machine game . Mark Knopfler sang a song , `` After the Beanstalk '' , in his 2012 album Privateering . Snips , Snails , and Dragon Tails , an Order of the Stick print book , contains an adaptation in the Sticktales section . Elan is Jack , Roy is the giant , Belkar is the golden goose , and Vaarsuvius is the wizard who sells the beans . Haley also appears as an agent sent to steal the golden goose , and Durkin as a dwarf neighbor with the comic 's stereotypical fear of tall plants . In the Season 3 premiere episode of Barney and Friends titled `` Shawn and the Beanstalk '' , Barney the Dinosaur and the gang tell their version of Jack and the Beanstalk which was all told in rhyme . In the animated movie Puss in Boots , the classic theme appears again . The magic beans play a central role in that movie , culminating in the scene , in which Puss , Kitty and Humpty ride a magic beanstalk to find the giant 's castle . In a Happy Tree Friends episode called `` Dunce Upon a Time '' , there was a strong resemblance as Giggles played a Jack - like role and Lumpy played a giant - like role . The story appears in the 2017 commercial for the British breakfast cereal Weetabix , where the giant is scared off by an English boy who has had a bowl of Weetabix . A children 's picture book , What Jill Did While Jack Climbed the Beanstalk , was published in 2016 by Sproodle Doodle Books . It takes place at the same time as Jack 's adventure , but it tells the story of what his sister encounters when she ventures out to help the family and neighbors .