Barbara Eden as Stella Johnson , a widowed cosmetics salesperson with a young daughter , whose joie de vivre , her principles , and her individuality anger most of the powerful people in town and on the Parent Teachers Association board . She inevitably becomes PTA president after embarrassing Flora , the snobby former President and her equally snobby friends . Ronny Cox as Willis `` Will '' Newton , a wealthy member of the PTA who does n't agree with Flora and her snobby allies and is in love with Stella . He and Stella get married at the end of the movie . Nanette Fabray as Alice Finley , Stella 's best friend and co-conspirator against the snobs of Harper Valley . She owns and operates the La Moderne Beauty Shop . Louis Nye as Kirby Baker , a local real estate agent who is allied with Flora and her friends . Notorious for being a lecherous playboy and infamous for impregnating his secretaries , one of whom , Gladys Wilmot , left town to see an abortionist in Cincinnati . As part of a plan to discredit Stella , he tries to foreclose on Stella 's house , which infuriates her . He then gets arrested and jailed for attacking Myrna Wong , a friend of Stella 's , who rebuffs his advances , throwing him by use of martial arts and destroying the office . John Fiedler as Bobby Taylor , a man on the PTA who lusts after Stella . Overly dominated by his wife , Holly . Although open to allow Stella to speak , he is not above having a fellow PTA board member kidnapped to commit election fraud . He was arrested for indecent exposure after being set up by Stella . Ron Masak as Herbie Maddox , the head bartender at Kelly 's bar , and Stella 's ally against Flora and her friends . He has a crush on Stella , and is one of her friends . Clint Howard as Corley , a young delivery person , who works for the local florist shop , who brings Stella flowers from Will . Susan Swift as Dee Johnson , Stella 's 14 - year - old daughter , who is threatened with expulsion from school if her mother does n't conform to the way the PTA wants her to behave . She has a hand in assisting her mother and Alice with one of their revenge schemes . She loses her braces , gets a makeover , and ends up with a boyfriend , Carlyle . Pat Paulsen as Otis Harper , the descendant of the founding family of Harper Valley . A PTA member who is allied with Flora and her friends . Has a tendency to drink all the time , which annoys his wife , Bertha . He had a stampede of elephants , painted pink , stormed through his house , destroying it . Amzie Strickland as Shirley Thompson , a member of the PTA board who tends to drink a lot of gin . Though she is allied with Flora and her friends , she is one of four PTA members ( Will , Skeeter and Holly Taylor are the others ) who are spared any retribution from Stella . She was seen as the most sympathetic of the board , as she tended to be more manipulated as opposed to being manipulative . It was never revealed whether or not she retained her seat on the PTA , but it is presumed that she became more sympathetic towards Stella as she was seen waving goodbye at Olive as she was being arrested . Bob Hastings as Skeeter Duggan , a member of the PTA board , and the town 's Notary public who is sympathetic to Stella . He is kidnapped by Dutch and Tex at Flora Simpson Reilly 's orders . Audrey Christie as Flora Simpson - Reilly , The movie 's main antagonist . She is the pompous and extremely snobbish president of the PTA board who thoroughly despises Stella ( who defeats her for president at the end of the movie ) and all she stands for . So desperate is she to retain her power and prestige in the community that she has a fellow member of the PTA ( Skeeter Duggan ) kidnapped so she and her allies can commit election fraud . She is embarrassed when her permanent set is destroyed by a hair depilatory at the beauty salon . Molly Dodd as Olive Glover , the recording secretary of the PTA who is a gambling addict . Clearly the most corrupt and most vindictive member of the PTA board , she is eventually arrested for embezzlement after having a load of hay and horse manure dumped on top of her . She is the one who initially angers Stella by sending her the letter denouncing her , and tries to get Dee 's friend , Mavis , arrested for embezzlement . Fay DeWitt as Willamae Jones , a snide biology teacher at the junior high school who is also a member of the PTA . She makes no secret of the fact that she favors the Reilly twins , due to the connections between her and Flora . Notorious for being a nymphomaniac ( though she hides it under a prim - and - proper façade ) , she is caught in flagrante delicto with Barney Crunk , the town 's mailman , on film . DeVera Marcus as Holly Taylor , Bobby 's obviously overbearing wife , who tends to drink a lot when Bobby is out of town , and does n't approve of Bobby 's lusting , or of anything else he does ( this is different from the character in the song , who `` seems to use a lot of ice whenever ( her husband ) 's away '' , implying adultery with the iceman ) . However , despite her ties to Flora and her scheming friends , she , like Shirley Thompson , is spared any retribution from Stella , due to Stella refusing to date Bobby . Louise Foley as Mavis , Dee Johnson 's best friend , who is nearly framed for a crime she did not commit by the vindictive Olive Glover . Brian Cook as Carlyle , a popular track star who chooses Dee , after she gets a makeover , and angers Bettina Reilly in the process . Laura Teige as Bettina Reilly , One of Flora 's twin granddaughters , who wants to be with Carlyle , and is jealous when he chooses Dee over her . She tends to be as snotty as her grandmother . Jan Teige as Edwina Reilly , Bettina 's twin sister , who is just as snotty as her . Irene Yah - Ling Sun as Myrna Wong , a friend of Stella 's who is a judo expert ; she is assaulted by Kirby Baker ( after leading him on ; she destroys him and his office in retaliation ) and has him sent to jail for assault . Tobias Anderson as `` Cranky '' Barney Crunk , the town 's nosy mailman who had the bad habit of peeking in everyone 's mail . He is caught in flagrante delicto on film with Willamae Jones . Royce D. Applegate as Dutch , one of two kidnappers who abduct Skeeter Duggan at Flora Simpson - Reilly 's orders . J.J. Barry as Tex , the mastermind of the kidnap plot to get Skeeter Duggan out of the way so Flora Simpson - Reilly and her friends could commit election fraud . He and his accomplice Dutch are arrested and the two of them rat out Flora and her friends on their scheme . Pitt Herbert as Henry Reilly , Flora 's overly dominated husband and grandfather to Edwina and Bettina . Henry is wealthy , but is very weak - willed and is known for acquiescing to his wife 's schemes . Arlen Stuart as Bertha Harper , wife of Otis Harper , who gets annoyed by her husband 's continual drinking . She is terrified when her house is destroyed by pink - painted elephants .