Country Visa requirement Allowed stay Notes ( excluding departure fees ) Reciprocity Afghanistan Visa required √ Albania Visa not required 90 days X Algeria Visa required √ Andorra Visa not required √ Angola eVisa 30 days Visitors who were granted online pre-visa are then issued with visa on arrival at Luanda International Airport . For a maximum total stay of 90 days within year period . X Antigua and Barbuda Visa not required 1 month √ Argentina Visa not required 90 days √ Armenia Visa not required 180 days X Australia eVisitor 90 days eVisitor , if granted , allows 90 day stay per visit for 12 months . eVisitor is issued free of charge . X Austria EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Azerbaijan eVisa 30 days X Bahamas Visa not required 3 months Extension of stay is possible . √ Bahrain eVisa / Visa on arrival 3 months Visa on arrival is single entry , subject to a fee . Multiple entry visa available on arrival for 1 month stay . Irish citizens can also apply for eVisas as an alternative . X Bangladesh Visa on arrival 30 days Visitors can apply to extend their stay when in the country . X Barbados Visa not required 6 months Visitors must have proof of onward travel , whereby their final destination is their country of residence or origin . √ Belarus Visa not required 5 days Travellers must arrive via Minsk International Airport to avail of visa - free access . Travellers must also depart from Minsk International Airport , to a destination outside of Belarus and Russia . Visa on arrival is not available to tourists travelling from Russia . X Belgium EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Belize Visa not required 1 month √ Benin Visa on arrival 8 days X Bhutan Visa required Pre-approved visa can be picked up on arrival . Visitors are required to book with a registered tour operator in Bhutan . √ Bolivia Visa not required 90 days 90 days within any year period √ Bosnia and Herzegovina Visa not required 90 days 90 days within any 6 - month period X Botswana Visa not required 90 days Extension to the visa - free period must be applied for in advance . √ Brazil Visa not required 90 days Extension of stay is possible . √ Brunei Visa not required 90 days √ Bulgaria EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Burkina Faso Visa on arrival 1 month X Burundi Visa required Passengers holding an entry authorisation letter from the authorities may obtain a visa on arrival for a maximum stay of 1 month . √ Cambodia eVisa / Visa on arrival 30 days Visa is also obtainable online . Visitors are not permitted to make day - trips to Cambodia ( except in certain circumstances ) . X Cameroon Visa required Pre-approved visa can be picked up on arrival . √ Canada Visa not required 6 months eTA required if arriving by air . √ Cape Verde Visa on arrival X Central African Republic Visa required √ Chad Visa required Visitors holding an ' entry authorisation ' letter can pick up a visa on arrival . √ Chile Visa not required 90 days Visitors are issued an immigration card on arrival and will be prevented from leaving Chile without it . √ China Visa required 72 - hours visa free visit when in transit at , Changsha , Chengdu , Chongqing , Guangzhou , Guilin , Harbin , Kunming , Qingdao , Wuhan , Xi'an and Xiamen . 144 - hours visa free visit when in transit at Beijing ( Beijing Capital International Airport ) , Dalian , Hangzhou , Hebei ( Shijiazhuang Zhengding International Airport ) , Nanjing , Shanghai ( Hongqiao and Pudong international airports , Railway Station and port ) , Shenyang and Tianjin ( Tianjin Binhai International Airport ) Hong Kong , Macau , and Taiwan do count as third countries under the 72 and 144 - hours transit policy . √ Colombia Visa not required 90 days Visitors may only enter Colombia for up to 180 days in any calendar year . X Comoros Visa on arrival 45 days X Republic of the Congo Visa required √ Democratic Republic of the Congo Visa required √ Costa Rica Visa not required 90 days √ Côte d'Ivoire eVisa 3 months eVisa holders must arrive via Port Bouet Airport X Croatia EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Cuba Tourist Card required √ Cyprus EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Czech Republic EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Denmark EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Djibouti eVisa 31 days X Dominica Visa not required 6 months √ Dominican Republic Visa not required X Ecuador Visa not required 90 days Extension of stay is possible . X Egypt eVisa / Visa on arrival 30 days X El Salvador Visa not required 3 months √ Equatorial Guinea Visa required √ Eritrea Visa required Pre-approved visa can be picked up on arrival . √ Estonia EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Ethiopia eVisa / Visa on arrival Only available at Addis Ababa Bole International Airport X Fiji Visa not required 4 months √ Finland EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ France EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Gabon eVisa / Visa on arrival 90 days Electronic visa holders must arrive via Libreville International Airport . X Gambia Visa not required 90 days X Georgia Visa not required 1 year X Germany EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Ghana Visa required Pre-approved visa can be picked up on arrival . √ Greece EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Grenada Visa not required 3 months √ Guatemala Visa not required 90 days √ Guinea Visa required √ Guinea - Bissau eVisa / Visa on arrival 90 days X Guyana Visa not required 3 months √ Haiti Visa not required 90 days X Honduras Visa not required 3 months √ Hungary EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Iceland EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ India e-Visa 60 days e-Visa holders must arrive via 24 designated airports or 3 designated seaports . X Indonesia Visa not required 30 days Not available at all entry points . X Iran Visa on arrival 30 days A visa on arrival is only available at Qeshm , Kish , Mashhad , Isfahan , Shiraz , Tabriz and Tehran . Extension of stay is possible . Women will be refused entry if not wearing Islamic head cover , scarf , long sleeves or stockings . All foreigners must report to the Iranian police within 8 days of arrival . Visa on arrival excludes all reporters , journalists , photographers and cameramen , who must obtain a visa prior to entering Iran . A visa on arrival for business travellers is available if holding a letter of invitation from a government agency which is issued at least 2 days prior to arrival . X Iraq Visa required Visa on arrival is available at Sulaimaniyah and Erbil airports and stays are limited to 15 days , with an extension of stay possible . √ Israel Visa not required 3 months Extension of stay is possible . √ Italy EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Jamaica Visa not required 90 days X Japan Visa not required 90 days Extension of stay is possible . √ Jordan Visa on arrival ! Free visa on arrival 6 months A free visa on arrival may be obtained only when travel is organised through an authorised tour operator in Jordan . The tour group must not consist of less than 5 people and there must be a minimum 2 night stay in Jordan . A return ticket must be presented to avail of this visa option . All other passengers who are not travelling as part of a tour group may obtain a visa on arrival , subject to a fee . The visa on arrival has a maximum validity of 6 months . X Kazakhstan Visa not required 30 days X Kenya eVisa / Visa on arrival 3 months X Kiribati Visa not required 30 days √ North Korea Visa required √ South Korea Visa not required 90 days √ Kuwait eVisa / Visa on arrival 3 months X Kyrgyzstan Visa not required 60 days X Laos Visa on arrival 30 days Not available at all entry points . Visa on arrival can be extended once . X Latvia EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Lebanon Free visa on arrival 1 month Free visa on arrival can be granted whenever a telephone number and address in Lebanon is provided . Visa can be extended for an additional two months . X Lesotho Visa not required 90 days √ Liberia Visa required Pre-approved visa can be picked up on arrival , subject to conditions . √ Libya Visa required Pre-approved visa can be picked up on arrival . Passengers arriving in Libya must hold a non-objection form issued by the Libyan Immigration Authorities . All travellers arriving in Libya for tourism must convert $1000 USD in freely convertible currency , or debit the amount from a credit card upon arrival in the country . √ Liechtenstein EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Lithuania EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Luxembourg EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Macedonia Visa not required 90 days X Madagascar Visa on arrival ! Visa on arrival 90 days A visa on arrival is only granted for those who have a return ticket . X Malawi Visa on arrival 90 days A residence permit must be obtained for those wishing to stay beyond 90 days . X Malaysia Visa not required 3 months If no return ticket is held , one must be purchased at the border or entry will be refused . √ Maldives Visa on arrival 30 days X Mali Visa required √ Malta EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Marshall Islands Visa on arrival ! Free visa on arrival 90 days X Mauritania Visa on arrival Available at Nouakchott -- Oumtounsy International Airport . X Mauritius Visa not required 90 days 180 days maximum stay in any one calendar year . X Mexico Visa not required 180 days √ Micronesia Visa not required 30 days Extension of stay is possible . X Moldova Visa not required 90 days Maximum stay of 90 days within any 6 - month period X Monaco Visa not required √ Mongolia Visa required √ Montenegro Visa not required 90 days X Morocco Visa not required 90 days X Mozambique Visa on arrival 30 days Not available at all entry points . Extension of stay is possible . X Myanmar eVisa 28 days eVisa holders must arrive via Yangon , Nay Pyi Taw or Mandalay airports . √ Namibia Visa not required 3 months X Nauru Visa required Visa requirement waived for holders of an Entry Permit letter . X Nepal Visa on arrival 90 days Extension of stay is possible of up to 150 days . Business travellers can obtain a visa on arrival for a maximum stay of 5 years , subject to a fee and a license issued by the Ministry of Industry . X Netherlands EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement ( European Netherlands ) √ New Zealand Visa not required 3 months √ Nicaragua Visa not required 90 days Tourist card must be obtained on arrival , subject to a fee . Extension of stay is possible . √ Niger Visa required √ Nigeria Visa required Pre-approved visa can be picked up on arrival . √ Norway EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Oman eVisa 30 days A visa waiver is in place for travellers who are arriving directly from the Emirate of Dubai who have a visa or an entrance stamp from Dubai , whereby the visa must be valid for 21 days at least upon arrival in Oman . A visa waiver is in place for travellers who are arriving directly from Qatar , whereby the visa must state as being valid for Oman and must be valid for at least one month on arrival . X Pakistan Visa required Visa on arrival when travelling on business valid for 30 days . Conditions apply . √ Palau Free visa on arrival 30 days Extension is possible for a fee . X Panama Visa not required 180 days √ Papua New Guinea Visa on arrival ! Free visa on arrival 60 days Visa on arrival available at Port Moresby and Rabaul . Tourists can obtain a visa on arrival free of charge , whilst those travelling on business must pay in cash . X Paraguay Visa not required 90 days √ Peru Visa not required 183 days X Philippines Visa not required 30 days A visa on arrival is available for a maximum stay of 59 days . Extension of stay is only possible for those who obtained a visa on arrival , to a maximum of 1 year . X Poland EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Portugal EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Qatar Visa not required 30 days Visa waiver available for Irish citizens with a 30 day extension available . X Romania EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Russia Visa required Visa waiver available for passengers arriving by cruise only who are staying in Russia for a maximum of 72 hours . √ Rwanda eVisa / Visa on arrival 30 days X Saint Kitts and Nevis Visa not required 3 months Extension of stay is possible . √ Saint Lucia Visa not required 6 weeks Extension of stay is possible . √ Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Visa not required 1 month Extension of stay is possible . √ Samoa Visa on arrival ! Free Entry Permit on arrival 60 days Extension of stay is possible . √ San Marino Visa not required √ São Tomé and Príncipe Visa not required 15 days X Saudi Arabia Visa required Muslim female passengers are subject to restrictions when arriving for Umrah or Hajj . √ Senegal Visa not required 90 days X Serbia Visa not required 90 days Irish citizens may stay in Serbia for 90 days within any 6 - month period . Extension is possible . X Seychelles Visa on arrival ! Free Visitor 's Permit on arrival 3 months Irish citizens can extend their stay for three months , up to a maximum of 12 months . Visitor 's permit is issued free of charge , subject to documentation being provided at the entry point . √ Sierra Leone Visa required Pre-approved visa can be picked up on arrival . √ Singapore Visa not required 90 days Extension of stay possible . √ Slovakia EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Slovenia EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Solomon Islands Visa on arrival ! Free Visitor 's permit on arrival 3 months √ Somalia Visa on arrival Available at Berbera , Borama , Burao , Erigavo and Hargeisa airports . 30 days , available at Bosaso , Galcaio and Mogadishu airports . X South Africa Visa not required 90 days Extension of stay possible for an additional 90 days . √ South Sudan Visa required √ Spain EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Sri Lanka eVisa / Visa on arrival 30 days Extension of stay possible for an additional 150 days for Irish citizens . X Sudan Visa required √ Suriname Visa required Visa on arrival is available to countries without Suriname representation for a maximum of 2 months , subject to prearranged approval . √ Swaziland Visa not required 30 days Extension of stay possible for a maximum of 90 days in total . √ Sweden EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Switzerland EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement √ Syria Visa required √ Tajikistan Visa on arrival 45 days Visa also available online . E-visa holders can enter through all border points . X Tanzania Visa on arrival Fee payable in USD at border . X Thailand Visa not required 30 days ACMECS Single Visa issued by Cambodia and Thailand are valid for 90 days from the date of issue and are valid for a stay of 60 days in Thailand . Extension of stay is possible . Maximum two visits annually if not arriving by air . X Timor - Leste Visa on arrival 30 days Extension of stay possible for up to 90 days . X Togo Visa on arrival 7 days Extension of stay possible for an additional 90 days , subject to a fee . X Tonga Visa on arrival ! Visa on arrival 31 days Visa on arrival is issued free of charge . Extension of stay for a further 5 months is possible . X Trinidad and Tobago Visa not required 90 days √ Tunisia Visa not required 3 months X Turkey eVisa 3 months X Turkmenistan Visa required Pre-approved visa can be picked up on arrival . √ Tuvalu Visa on arrival 1 month X Uganda eVisa / Visa on arrival Must be applied for online before travel . An East Africa Tourist Visa issued by Kenya or Rwanda can also be used for entry . X Ukraine Visa not required 90 days 90 days within any 180 day period . X United Arab Emirates Free visa on arrival ! Visa on arrival 30 days Visa on arrival is free of charge to Irish citizens . Extension of stay is possible for a further 30 days . X United Kingdom EU ! Visa not required Freedom of movement ( in Constituent countries ) √ United States Visa not required ! Visa Waiver Program 90 days ESTA required if arriving by air or cruise ship . ESTA is valid for two years when issued . Holders of non-biometric passports must obtain a visa for the United States as they are ineligible to apply for an ESTA . Leaving the United States and re-entering from Canada or Mexico will not reset the original 90 day maximum stay . You can only reset the timer by leaving North America . √ Uruguay Visa not required 90 days Extension of stay is possible for a further 90 days . √ Uzbekistan Visa required Simplified procedure for Irish citizens - no requirement for tourist voucher or invitation letter from Uzbekistan . Visitors with stays longer than three days must register with the local police . √ Vanuatu Visa not required 30 days √ Vatican City Visa not required √ Venezuela Visa not required 90 days Extension of stay is possible for a further 90 days . X Vietnam eVisa 30 days A single entry eVisa is available . Fee payable . X Yemen Visa required √ Zambia Visa not required 90 days For those travelling to Zambia for business , the maximum stay is 30 days in any one - year period . Tourists are allowed 90 days in any one - year period . X Zimbabwe eVisa / Visa on arrival 3 months For those travelling to Zimbabwe for business , a visa on arrival can also be issued for a maximum stay of 30 days . X