Lieutenant Colonel Philip Toosey of the British Army was the real senior Allied officer at the bridge in question . Toosey was very different from Nicholson and was certainly not a collaborator who felt obliged to work with the Japanese . Toosey in fact did as much as possible to delay the building of the bridge . While Nicholson disapproves of acts of sabotage and other deliberate attempts to delay progress , Toosey encouraged this : termites were collected in large numbers to eat the wooden structures , and the concrete was badly mixed . Some consider the film to be an insulting parody of Toosey . On a BBC Timewatch programme , a former prisoner at the camp states that it is unlikely that a man like the fictional Nicholson could have risen to the rank of lieutenant colonel , and , if he had , due to his collaboration he would have been `` quietly eliminated '' by the other prisoners . Julie Summers , in her book The Colonel of Tamarkan , writes that Boulle , who had been a prisoner of war in Thailand , created the fictional Nicholson character as an amalgam of his memories of collaborating French officers . He strongly denied the claim that the book was anti-British , although many involved in the film itself ( including Alec Guinness ) felt otherwise . Ernest Gordon , a survivor of the railway construction and POW camps described in the novel / film , stated in a 1962 book , Through the Valley of the Kwai : `` In Pierre Boulle 's book The Bridge over the River Kwai and the film which was based on it , the impression was given that British officers not only took part in building the bridge willingly , but finished in record time to demonstrate to the enemy their superior efficiency . This was an entertaining story . But I am writing a factual account , and in justice to these men -- living and dead -- who worked on that bridge , I must make it clear that we never did so willingly . We worked at bayonet point and under bamboo lash , taking any risk to sabotage the operation whenever the opportunity arose . ''