No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) `` You Have to Go Inside '' Craig William Macneill Nick Antosca October 11 , 2016 ( 2016 - 10 - 11 ) 0.76 Child psychologist Mike Painter returns to his home town of Iron Hill , Ohio nearly thirty years after an unknown serial killer murdered five local children , among them his twin brother , Eddie . Eddie 's body was never found . His mother , Marla , is the only family remaining in the area . He reconnects with friends Jessica and Gary ( who is now the town 's sheriff ) , and meets their daughter , Katie . Over dinner , Mike mentions Candle Cove , a disturbing children 's series involving puppet pirates that they watched around the time of the murders , until it mysteriously went off the air . Katie tells Mike that she 's seen the show recently . The next day Katie goes missing and Mike is under suspicion . Through Katie 's brother , Dane , Mike realizes where he can find Katie . Mike follows a figure dressed as a skeleton who resembles one of the character from the show . He discovers Katie alive in the woods where the murders took place . He carries Katie back to her family , unaware she has left two of her teeth behind to be claimed by an eerie creature whose skin is entirely made up of teeth . Marla tells Mike that when he and his brother were watching Candle Cove as children , they were actually watching static on the television . `` I 'll Hold Your Hand '' Craig William Macneill Don Mancini & Nick Antosca October 18 , 2016 ( 2016 - 10 - 18 ) 0.63 Gary and Jessica are awoken by their son 's screams after Katie stabs him with a hook . Although Gary does n't completely trust Mike , he allows him to talk to Katie at the hospital alone in order to discover what happened . Meanwhile , Marla visits a television station to ask about Candle Cove . The technician remembers the program and shows Marla a fan - made recreation but tells her no tapes of the original show exist as it was impossible to record . Mike finds more links to the Candle Cove imagery in Katie 's drawing and uses it as a clue to visit an abandoned cement factory with his mother . Mike follows a mysterious figure into the factory alone and discovers the decomposed remains of his brother , Eddie . That night , Mike confesses to Marla that he killed Eddie as a child and buried his body but that it had been moved before the police dug up the grave site . Upset , Marla stabs Mike in the arm . The next day Gary comes to the house and asks Mike to come with him to the police station for questioning . However , along the way Mike realizes that Gary is taking him somewhere else . `` Want to See Something Cool ? '' Craig William Macneill Harley Peyton October 25 , 2016 ( 2016 - 10 - 25 ) 0.55 Gary takes Mike to an empty house he had wanted to buy and handcuffs him in a chair . Tim and Daphne arrive at the house where they all interrogate Mike about the murders of their family members , believing him responsible . Flashbacks reveal that Candle Cove inspired Eddie to kill Tim 's bully brother , Gene , using psychic mind - control to make him walk off the edge of a cliff . Eddie continued vengefully killing other children in a similar way before Mike stopped him by stabbing him with a hook . In present day , the others doubt Mike 's story and Tim shoots him in the shoulder in a struggle for the truth . Marla , Jessica , and deputy Amy arrive at the house as Tim and Daphne run away . Seeing Mike 's condition , Amy takes Gary into custody . A group of kids end up killing Tim as he walks home . Later , Daphne visits Mrs. Booth , her former teacher , who also lost a son in the murders . After explaining what happened with Mike at the house , Booth murders Daphne with an ice hook and returns to host a group of children watching Candle Cove on her television . Mike 's daughter , Lily , inexplicably arrives alone at Marla 's house , even though she lives miles away . `` A Strange Vessel '' Craig William Macneill Erica Saleh & Nick Antosca November 1 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 01 ) 0.47 Lily reveals herself to be a manifestation of Eddie and promises to send Mike `` where he belongs '' . Fulfilling Eddie 's wish , Mike breaks into the morgue with the help of Jessica and burns Eddie 's skeletal remains . Jessica and Mike are shown to have been childhood sweethearts when they were young . Acting Sheriff Amy investigates the strange behavior of some kids and after a confusing encounter with Mrs. Booth at school , she finds the children playing pirate in the gymnasium . Acting on a hunch , she searches Booth 's home and finds Candle Cove props in her basement , eventually coming across Daphne 's body . Meanwhile , Jessica returns home to discover several children masked in Candle Cove costumes who suddenly start stabbing her . She collapses , bleeding as Booth stands in the background . Lily regains consciousness as herself . 5 5 `` Guest of Honor '' Craig William Macneill Katie Gruel & Mallory Westfall November 8 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 08 ) 0.44 Mike discovers an extra tooth breaking through his gum , a trait that only Eddie had as a child . Amy tells Mike about Jessica 's murder and she agrees to let Gary out of custody to help him search Mrs. Booth 's property . Gary discovers some teeth left on a fence post outside and Mike realizes the Candle Cove props were fake . He receives a phone call from Booth instructing him to meet her alone at an abandoned diner . He goes there and witnesses Booth in the skeleton costume , controlling children into helping her commit murder . Later , she goes to Marla 's house and she tells Mike and Marla how Eddie used his powers to control her seizures . It was also Eddie who created Candle Cove , not her . Booth killed her own son as a sacrifice for Eddie in order to increase his power and welcomes Eddie 's return through Mike . That night at a motel , the tooth creature lures Lily away . As Mike attempts to extract his extra tooth , Candle Cove begins playing on the television , featuring a frightened Lily . 6 6 `` Welcome Home '' Craig William Macneill Nick Antosca & Harley Peyton & Don Mancini November 15 , 2016 ( 2016 - 11 - 15 ) 0.42 Amy and Gary search for the children suspects and Gary is able to reclaim his own children from Candle Cove 's control . Mike 's wife , Erica , demands to know where Lily is but he insists that he 's the only one who can save her . He takes Erica to the site of the murders and loses consciousness , entering Eddie 's parallel world filled with strange rooms and monsters . When he finally comes face to face with his brother , Eddie allows Lily to leave if Mike will stay forever . Lily returns to reality by crawling through a TV and is greeted by her mother . Marla goes to the woods where she is attacked by Mrs. Booth . Marla is rescued at the last minute by Amy , who shoots Booth before Marla finally stabs her skull with the hook . Mike convinces Eddie to stay for one more card game they played as kids , delaying him long enough for Marla to return to the woods and suffocate Mike 's body before Eddie can possess it . Unable to break free of his world , Eddie is forced to remain with Mike .