The girls go out for camping in the mountains , tasking Harima and Hanai with carrying their things ( with Imadori taking a ride inside Hanai 's baggage ) . However , Tenma had forgotten to take the lunch box her sister made , prompting Harima to offer to cook when she and Eri volunteer for the task . Not wanting to be shown up by a delinquent , Hanai decides to challenge him , with Akira making a competition of it , and Imadori as the third entrant , just so he can win a kiss from Mikoto despite her obvious objections . At the start of the competition , the three head into the wilderness for ingredients . While fishing , Harima encounters a giant crab , and charges at it with his three - pronged spear . Meanwhile , in the mountains , Hanai takes on a boar . At the competition , Imadori makes good curry and rice , but when he confesses he made it from industrialized curry , he is disqualified . The girls then try Harima 's crab stew dish , and it proves refreshingly tasty , however he added the salt first and this ultimately affects the quality of the soup . Then Hanai 's boar soup is served , eliciting very uplifting reactions -- however , since he forgot to wash the mushrooms he found before cooking it , the food tastes slightly muddy . In the end , the winner is revealed to be ... Eri 's own cook , Masaru Suzuki , who appeared along with her butler all of a sudden . Later , the episode focuses on each character 's lives outside of school where they all have part - time jobs . Harima applies for an animation studio , knowing it will help developing his manga artist abilities . Sarah and Asou are at a Chinese restaurant , but since their boss is on leave due to his wife having a baby , she , despite Asou 's protest , decides to shopkeep in his place , since some customers have already booked in a reservation . Yakumo is working at a cosplay café , and has to wear a rabbit suit for the day , much to her flustering and Hanai 's surprise ( and secret delight ) . Ganji 's buddies are helping out at his family 's video rental shop , when Nara discovers a door behind a shelf . They wonder if it will lead to `` treasure '' , and Ganji leads them through , after warning them there was something in there that would change their lives forever . Meanwhile , Lara and Karen are working together in a fast food restaurant , when Imadori comes and orders a kids ' meal . When Karen tries to explain this to him , he calls her a coward , prompting Lara to ruthlessly beat him up . Tenma 's job is in a bakery , where she has to pack bread in plastic bags . As much as she wants to take a break , her boss keeps giving her more and more full trays of bread , and she faints of exhaustion . Akira , in turn , is working in an old bookstore , simply because almost nobody comes over , and she uses the time to read whatever she feels like . However , she also has a secret part - time job in parallel to this one ...