The rebel slaves of the Third Servile War : Between 73 BC and 71 BC a band of slaves , eventually numbering about 120,000 , under the ( at least partial ) leadership of Spartacus were in open revolt against the Roman republic . The rebellion was eventually crushed and , while Spartacus himself most likely died in the final battle of the revolt , approximately 6,000 of his followers were crucified along the 200 km Appian Way between Capua and Rome as a warning to any other would - be rebels . Jehohanan : Jewish man who was crucified around the same time as Jesus of Nazareth and it is widely accepted that his ankles were nailed to the side of the stipe of the cross Jesus of Nazareth : his death by crucifixion under Pontius Pilate ( c . AD 30 or 33 ) , recounted in the four 1st - century canonical Gospels , is referred to repeatedly as something well known in the earlier letters of Saint Paul , for instance , five times in his First Letter to the Corinthians , written in 57 AD ( 1 : 13 , 1 : 18 , 1 : 23 , 2 : 2 , 2 : 8 ) . Pilate was the Roman governor of Iudaea province at the time , and he is explicitly linked with the condemnation of Jesus not only by the Gospels but also by Tacitus , ( see Responsibility for the death of Jesus for details ) . The civil charge was a claim to be King of the Jews . Saint Peter : Christian apostle , who according to tradition was crucified upside - down at his own request ( hence the Cross of St. Peter ) , because he did not feel worthy enough to die the same way as Jesus . Saint Andrew : Christian apostle and Saint Peter 's brother , who is traditionally said to have been crucified on an X-shaped cross ( hence the St. Andrew 's Cross ) . Simeon of Jerusalem : second Bishop of Jerusalem , crucified in either 106 or 107 . Mani : the founder of Manicheanism , he was depicted by followers as having died by crucifixion in 274 AD . Eulalia of Barcelona was venerated as a saint . According to her hagiography , she was stripped naked , tortured , and ultimately crucified on an X-shaped cross . Wilgefortis was venerated as a saint and represented as a crucified woman , however her legend comes from a misinterpretation of a full - clothed crucifix known as the Volto Santo of Lucca .