Jorge Luis Borges ( 1899 -- 1986 ) , the Argentine writer , published an acclaimed essay on Qin Shi Huang , `` The Wall and the Books '' ( `` La muralla y los libros '' ) , in the 1952 collection Other Inquisitions ( Otras Inquisiciones ) . Shin No Shikoutei ( 1962 ) - The film portrays Qin Shi Huang as a battle - hardened emperor with his roots in the military . Big Trouble in Little China ( 1986 ) - Qin Shi Huang is mentioned as having defeated the film 's main villain , Lo Pan , in battle , and subsequently cursing him to live as a ghost . The events of the film revolve around Lo Pan 's attempts to break the curse . The Emperor 's Shadow ( 1996 ) - The film focuses on Qin Shi Huang 's relationship with the musician Gao Jianli , a friend of the assassin Jing Ke . The Emperor and the Assassin ( 1999 ) - The film covers much of Ying Zheng 's career , recalling his early experiences as a hostage and foreshadowing his dominance over China . Hero ( 2002 ) - The film stars Jet Li , a nameless assassin who plans an assassination attempt on the King of Qin ( Chen Daoming ) . The film is a fictional re-imagining of the assassination attempt by Jing Ke on Qin Shi Huang . Rise of the Great Wall ( 1986 ) - a 63 episode TV series chronicling the events from the emperor 's birth until his death . Bainborough played Qin Shi Huang . A Step into the Past ( 2001 ) - a Hong Kong TVB production based on a science fiction novel by Huang Yi . Qin Shi Huang ( 2002 ) - a mainland Chinese TV series production . It features a semi-fictionalized story of the emperor 's life , from his childhood until his death . Zhang Fengyi starred as Qin Shi Huang . Kingdom ( 2006 - ) - a Japanese manga that provides a fictionalized account of the unification of China by Ying Zheng with Li Xin and all the people that contributed to the conquest of the six Warring States . First Emperor : The Man Who Made China ( 2006 ) - a drama - documentary special about Qin Shi Huang . James Pax played the emperor . It was shown on Channel 4 in the United Kingdom in 2006 . China 's First Emperor ( 2008 ) - a special three - hour documentary by The History Channel . Xu Pengkai played Qin Shi Huang . In the 2005 4X video game Civilization IV developed by Firaxis Games , Qin Shi Huang is one of the two playable leaders of China . Qin Shi Huang leads the Chinese civilization in the 2016 4X video game Civilization VI developed by Firaxis Games . Qin Shi Huang acts as the titular antagonist in The Mummy : Tomb of the Dragon Emperor , played by Jet Li .