Robin appears in the direct - to - video animated movie Justice League : The New Frontier , voiced by Shane Haboucha . In his first appearance in his original costume since the end of The Super Powers Team : Galactic Guardians , this version apparently was adopted as a teenager after Batman realizes that he is frightening the innocent , instead of being adopted as a child ; the circumstances surrounding their meeting are not shown . Robin thought that Superman was cool and showed great skills in acrobatics in the Batcave . Nightwing appears in the feature film Batman : Under the Red Hood , voiced by Neil Patrick Harris . This version is already Nightwing but is alluded as the first version of Robin before Jason Todd . At the story 's start , Nightwing takes down two minor thugs , one of whom knows that Nightwing was once Robin as does the Joker . Nightwing later assists Batman in pursuing the Red Hood but is injured in an explosion set by Red Hood . While being bandaged by Alfred Pennyworth in the Batcave , he insists on helping Batman but is unable due to his injury and is told to go home but not before he is thanked by the Dark Knight for his help , which surprises him . Nightwing is also seen in the film 's epilogue hearing reports of the Joker 's arrest . Robin appears in JLA Adventures : Trapped in Time , voiced by Jack DeSena . The movie was intended to be a reboot , of sorts , of the classic Super Friends series , in which Dick Grayson joins Batman and various heroes , the Justice League in this case , on adventures . Robin plays a supporting role , and acts as somewhat of a foil to the two future Legion of Super-Heroes members , Karate Kid and Dawnstar . Robin is shown to have a close relationship to Batman , although he tends to ignore his orders . Dick Grayson ( voiced by Sean Maher ) appears in Son of Batman , Batman vs. Robin , Batman : Bad Blood , Justice League vs. Teen Titans , and Teen Titans : The Judas Contract . Dick initially appears as Nightwing in Son of Batman and Batman vs. Robin . Grayson also acted as a replacement version of Batman for the majority of Batman : Bad Blood . Dick is even shown with a flirtatious relationship with Starfire in Justice League vs. Teen Titans . They are also romantically involved as shown in Teen Titans : The Judas Contract . Nightwing ( voiced by Will Friedle ) appears in Batman Unlimited : Animal Instincts , Batman Unlimited : Monster Mayhem and Batman Unlimited : Mech vs. Mutants . Dick Grayson / Nightwing appears in Lego DC Comics Super Heroes : Justice League : Gotham City Breakout , voiced by Will Friedle . He joins Barbara Gordon / Batgirl in getting Batman to go on vacation , but this leads to the three meeting with Deathstroke and Bane , as the Justice League and the Teen Titans take on a plethora of Batman villains in Gotham . Burt Ward reprises his role as Dick Grayson / Robin in the animated movie Batman : Return of the Caped Crusaders , which takes place in the continuity of the 1960s television show . Loren Lester reprises his role from the DC Animated Universe as Dick Grayson / Nightwing in Batman and Harley Quinn . In the film , he teams with Batman and Harley Quinn to stop Poison Ivy and Floronic Man and is shown to have an attraction to Harley which is occasionally frowned upon by Batman . A Feudal Japan version of Nightwing voiced by Daisuke Ono ( Japan release ) and Adam Croasdell ( American release ) appears in the 2018 movie Batman Ninja . A Victorian - era version of Dick Grayson whose name is Dickie appears in Batman : Gotham by Gaslight , he is an orphan and street - thief alongside Jason and Timmy who are Victorian versions of Jason Todd and Tim Drake , they are initially under the employee of Big Bill Dust , but are released by Batman soon after who asks their aid towards the end of the film .