In 1994 , various country music artists united to record a Skynyrd tribute album titled Skynyrd Frynds . In 2010 , another country tribute album was produced , primarily by Jay Joyce , titled Sweet Home Alabama -- The Country Music Tribute to Lynyrd Skynyrd . This album features a more modern country flavor than the 1994 tribute , featuring Randy Houser , Jamey Johnson , Eric Church , Eli Young Band , Uncle Kracker , Ashley Ray , Randy Montana , and Shooter Jennings . Ronnie Van Zant 's widow , Judy Van Zant Jenness , operates a Lynyrd Skynyrd tribute website for the educational purpose of sharing the original Lynyrd Skynyrd band 's history , as well as Freebird Live , a live music venue in Jacksonville Beach , Florida . The Drive - By Truckers dedicated their album Southern Rock Opera ( 2001 ) to Lynyrd Skynyrd . Under the Influence : A Jam Band Tribute to Lynyrd Skynyrd ( 2004 ) features Les Claypool , Galactic , Gov 't Mule , North Mississippi Allstars , John Hiatt , Blues Traveler , Drive - By Truckers , Big Head Todd & the Monsters , the Disco Biscuits , Yonder Mountain String Band , and Particle . An All - Star Tribute to Lynyrd Skynyrd ( 2007 ) features Molly Hatchet with Charlie Daniels , Outlaws ( feat . Hughie Thomasson ) , Artimus Pyle , Ed King & The Honkettes , Great White , Canned Heat , Blackfoot ( feat . Rickey Medlocke ) , Walter Trout , Jim Dandy 's Black Oak Arkansas , Pat Travers , Dangerous Toys , Atlanta Rhythm Section , Rick Derringer , Sky Saxon ( of the Seeds ) and Joey Covington ( of Jefferson Airplane ) . An episode of the 2016 Showtime series Roadies entitled `` The All Night Bus Ride '' paid tribute to Lynyrd Skynyrd . In the episode , a fictional veteran road manager played by Ron White recalls how a chance encounter with Ronnie Van Zant in a bathroom changed his life and led to him becoming an integral part of the Lynyrd Skynyrd entourage until a Japanese tour shortly before the 1977 plane crash . The band , with Nathan Sutton playing the role of Van Zant , are portrayed as brawlers with a very dangerous reputation . Van Zant is depicted as a fatherly figure ( referring to himself as `` Papa Ronnie '' at one point ) whose fierce dedication drove the entire band to strive for greatness .