Control over the means of production was removed from the state through privatization and private property rights were re-established . In several countries property was restored to its former owners or their legal successors . If the actual property could not be returned the former owners received compensation . This occurred in Eastern Germany , Czechoslovakia , Hungary and Estonia . In all the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States , the government decided against restoration or compensation on the grounds that too much time had elapsed and in many cases compensation had already been made through bilateral treaties between the USSR and foreign governments representing the former owners . Voucher privatization in which citizens and workers in the enterprises received free or cheap shares was undertaken in most of the transition economies . The decision - making system was de-centralized through the ending of central planning and the privatization of enterprises . Work collectives and trade unions lost much of their influence in enterprise decision - making . Markets became the dominant coordination mechanism following price liberalization and the de-control of foreign trade that permitted more or less unrestricted importation of goods in 1990 / 92 . Queues at retail outlets disappeared as did hoarded inventories at factories . Stock exchanges were established between 1990 and 1995 . Anti-monopoly legislation was introduced . As workers lost their jobs or found their wages unpaid , informal labour markets sprang up along certain streets , particularly for construction trades . The incentive system was modified by the legalization of private enterprise and alteration to employment laws . A large informal sphere developed estimated at comprising 21 to 30 percent of official calculations of GDP . The organizational forms prevailing in the socialist planned economies were restructured by breaking up vertically - integrated industrial and agricultural concerns and closing non-viable undertakings . The hardening of enterprise budget constraints was more significant in driving industrial restructuring than privatization according to some studies . The distribution system became more unequal as price controls on necessities were removed fuelling the growth of poverty among people on fixed incomes such as pensioners and the unemployed . Redistributive measures through taxation and social safety nets proved unable to counteract the growth of poverty and , at the other end of the income scale , the emergence of a rich business elite ( see also business oligarch ) . The public choice mechanism was overhauled to rescind the communist party 's leading role and introduce a liberal constitution entrenching civil rights and representative democracy in almost all transition economies except Belarus , Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan .