Every time a client requests a web page , the server can identify the request 's IP address and usually logs it . Also , unless set not to do so , most web browsers record requested web pages in a viewable history feature , and usually cache much of the content locally . Unless the server - browser communication uses HTTPS encryption , web requests and responses travel in plain text across the Internet and can be viewed , recorded , and cached by intermediate systems . When a web page asks for , and the user supplies , personally identifiable information -- such as their real name , address , e-mail address , etc. -- web - based entities can associate current web traffic with that individual . If the website uses HTTP cookies , username and password authentication , or other tracking techniques , it can relate other web visits , before and after , to the identifiable information provided . In this way it is possible for a web - based organization to develop and build a profile of the individual people who use its site or sites . It may be able to build a record for an individual that includes information about their leisure activities , their shopping interests , their profession , and other aspects of their demographic profile . These profiles are obviously of potential interest to marketeers , advertisers and others . Depending on the website 's terms and conditions and the local laws that apply information from these profiles may be sold , shared , or passed to other organizations without the user being informed . For many ordinary people , this means little more than some unexpected e-mails in their in - box or some uncannily relevant advertising on a future web page . For others , it can mean that time spent indulging an unusual interest can result in a deluge of further targeted marketing that may be unwelcome . Law enforcement , counter terrorism , and espionage agencies can also identify , target and track individuals based on their interests or proclivities on the Web .