The Internet offers universal interconnection , which means that any pair of computers connected to the Internet is allowed to communicate . Each computer is identified by an address on the Internet . All the interconnected physical networks appear to the user as a single large network . This interconnection scheme is called an internetwork or internet . Conceptually , an Internet addresses consists of a netid and a hostid . The netid identifies a network and the hostid identifies a host . The term host is misleading in that an individual computer can have multiple network interfaces each having its own Internet address . An Internet Address identifies a connection to the network , not an individual computer . The netid is used by routers to decide where to send a packet . Network technology independence is achieved using the low - level address resolution protocol ( ARP ) which is used to map Internet addresses to physical addresses . The mapping is called address resolution . This way physical addresses are only used by the protocols of the network interface layer . The TCP / IP protocols can make use of almost any underlying communication technology . Figure 4 . Message flows in the presence of a router Physical networks are interconnected by routers . Routers forward packets between interconnected networks making it possible for hosts to reach hosts on other physical networks . The message flows between two communicating systems A and B in the presence of a router R are illustrated in figure 4 . Datagrams are passed from router to router until a router is reached that can deliver the datagram on a physically attached network ( called direct delivery ) . To decide whether a datagram is to be delivered directly or is to be sent to a router closer to the destination , a table called the IP routing table is consulted . The table consists of pairs of networkids and the paths to be taken to reach known networks . The path can be an indication that the datagram should be delivered directly or it can be the address of a router known to be closer to the destination . A special entry can specify that a default router is chosen when there are no known paths . All networks are treated equal . A LAN , a WAN or a point - to - point link between two computers are all considered as one network . A Connectionless packet delivery ( or packet - switched ) system ( or service ) is offered by the Internet , because it adapts well to different hardware , including best - effort delivery mechanisms like the ethernet . Connectionless delivery means that the messages or streams are divided into pieces that are multiplexed separately on the high speed intermachine connections allowing the connections to be used concurrently . Each piece carries information identifying the destination . The delivery of packets is said to be unreliable , because packets may be lost , duplicated , delayed or delivered out of order without notice to the sender or receiver . Unreliability arises only when resources are exhausted or underlying networks fail . The unreliable connectionless delivery system is defined by the Internet Protocol ( IP ) . The protocol also specifies the routing function , which chooses a path over which data will be sent . It is also possible to use TCP / IP protocols on connection oriented systems . Connection oriented systems build up virtual circuits ( paths for exclusive use ) between senders and receivers . Once built up the IP datagrams are sent as if they were data through the virtual circuits and forwarded ( as data ) to the IP protocol modules . This technique , called tunneling , can be used on X. 25 networks and ATM networks . A reliable stream transport service using the unreliable connectionless packet delivery service is defined by the transmission control protocol ( TCP ) . The services are layered as well and the application programs residing in the layer above it , called the application services , can make use of TCP . Programs wishing to interact with the packet delivery system itself can do so using the user datagram protocol ( UDP ) .