DC Universe : The Queen of Fables is a witch from the DC Comics universe . She was a scheming villainess who in her youth wrought hell on earth until she was trapped in a book by her own stepdaughter , Snow White . Centuries later , she was freed accidentally by Snow White 's descendants and has since faced many Justice League superheroes like Superman and Wonder Woman , who the Queen thought was Snow White due to her great beauty . Fables : In Bill Willingham 's comic book series , Snow White and Rose Red 's witch mother is ordered to kill Snow by the King . She fakes her daughter 's death and arranges for her to live with her aunt , a widowed queen of a distant land ( Snow 's mother helped her to achieve this position ) . Years later , her aunt who is enraged by the fact that Snow is lovelier than her and decides to kill her herself in a manner similar to the fairy tale ( first ordering the hunter and then delivering a poisoned apple ) . In the main series , Snow White is one of the main protagonists as the mayor of Fabletown . She broke up with Prince Charming when he cheated on her with her sister Rose Red . She had a close relationship with Bigby Wolf and eventually married him after giving birth to seven of his cubs . Lost Seven : In this 2008 manga written by Kazuki Nakashima , Queen Rose , also known as The Witch of the Mirror , is a former court magician who usurped the throne and killed all members of the royal family except of Snow White , who managed to escape . She also appears to plan to open a portal to the demon realm through a magic mirror , here called Sephiroth Glass and crafted by Snow White 's own family . Queen Rose is killed ( as is Snow White ) , but as the castle crumbles she manages to rescue her own biological daughter , Red Rose , who 10 years later becomes the heroine of the series . Snow White ( 1877 ) : In this play by Henriette Kühne - Harkort , published in The Queen 's Mirror : Fairy Tales by German Women , 1780 - 1900 in 2001 , the Queen figure is Richilde , countess of Brabant , jealous for Prince Kunimund .