Rick Moranis as Seymour Krelborn , a nerdy florist who loves `` strange and interesting '' plants . He is nice and well - intentioned , but is easily influenced : the plant , Audrey II , tricks him into feeding it humans . Ellen Greene as Audrey , a kind , shy , friendly , and awkward coworker who is the object of Seymour 's affections , but who is dating the sadistic Orin Scrivello . Vincent Gardenia as Mr. Mushnik , the grumpy , stingy owner of Mushnik 's Flower Shop . Steve Martin as Orin Scrivello , DDS , a sadistic , nitrous oxide - addicted dentist and Audrey 's violent , abusive boyfriend . Levi Stubbs as the voice of Audrey II , an evil and boisterous flytrap - like extraterrestrial plant with plans to take over the planet . Tichina Arnold , Michelle Weeks , and Tisha Campbell as Crystal , Ronette , and Chiffon , the three mysterious girls who act as a Greek chorus and often provide back - up to the songs throughout the film . Jim Belushi as Patrick Martin , a Licensing and Marketing executive from World Botanical Enterprises who offers Seymour a proposal to sell Audrey IIs worldwide . Belushi appears in the theatrical release after re-shoots , as actor Paul Dooley ( who played Martin in the original ending ) was unavailable to reprise his scenes . John Candy as Wink Wilkinson , the DJ for WSKID who puts on a radio show about `` weird stuff '' called `` Wink Wilkinson 's Weird World '' . Christopher Guest as The First Customer , the first customer to enter the flower shop and notice Audrey II . Bill Murray as Arthur Denton , a hyperactive masochist who visits Orin the dentist for `` a long , slow root canal . '' Miriam Margolyes as a Dental Nurse , Orin 's cynical nurse / secretary who Orin frequently appears to enjoy hurting . Stanley Jones as the Narrator , whose voice is heard reading the opening words . Mak Wilson , Danny John - Jules , Danny Cunningham , Gary Palmer , and Paul Swaby as the doo - wop backup singers . Jim Henson 's daughter Heather Henson cameos as one of Orin 's patients . Vincent Wong as the Chinese Florist Kerry Shale as Life magazine assistant Audrey II was operated by John Alexander , Anthony Asbury , Don Austen , David Barclay , Michael Barclay , James Barton , Michael Bayliss , Marcus Clarke , Sue Dacre , Graham Fletcher , Brian Henson , Terry Lee , Christopher Leith , Toby Philpott , Mike Quinn , Paul Springer , William Todd - Jones , Ian Tregonnian , Robert Tygner , and Mak Wilson .