The Millennium Bridge , London officially known as the London Millennium Footbridge , is a steel suspension bridge for pedestrians crossing the River Thames in London , England , linking Bankside with the City . Londoners nicknamed the bridge the `` Wobbly Bridge '' after participants in a charity walk on behalf of Save the Children to open the bridge felt an unexpected , and , for some , uncomfortable , swaying motion on the first two days after the bridge opened . The bridge was closed later that day , and after two days of limited access the bridge was closed for almost two years while modifications were made to eliminate the wobble entirely . It was reopened in 2002 . 30 St Mary Axe ( informally also known as `` the Gherkin '' and previously the Swiss Re Building ) is a skyscraper in London 's financial district , the City of London , completed in December 2003 and opened at the end of May 2004 . The building has become an iconic symbol of London and is one of the city 's most widely recognised examples of modern architecture . Wembley Stadium is a football stadium located in Wembley Park , in the Borough of Brent , London , England . It opened in 2007 and was built on the site of the previous 1923 Wembley Stadium . The earlier Wembley stadium , originally called the Empire Stadium , was often referred to as `` The Twin Towers '' and was one of the world 's most famous football stadia until its demolition in 2003 . A major redevelopment of London 's Trafalgar Square led by WS Atkins with Foster and Partners as sub-consultants was completed in 2003 . The work involved closing the main eastbound road along the north side , diverting the traffic around the other three sides of the square , demolishing the central section of the northern retaining wall and inserting a wide set of steps leading up to a pedestrianised terrace in front of the National Gallery . The construction includes two lifts for disabled access , public toilets , and a small café . Previously , access between the square and the Gallery was by two crossings at the northeast and northwest corners of the square . Taipei 101 became the tallest building in the world ever built after it officially opened on December 31 , 2004 , a record it held until the opening of the Burj Khalifa ( Formerly known as Burj Dubai ) in January 2010 , standing at 828 m ( 2,717 ft ) .