Twisty the Clown ( portrayed by John Carroll Lynch ) originally was a slow - witted but gentle clown at a freak show in 1943 . Jealous of his popularity , the freaks of the carnival spread rumors that he was a child molester and drove him away . With nowhere else to go , he returned home to Jupiter , Florida , only to find that his mother had died . After failing to support himself by selling toys made of junk to a local toy store , Twisty attempted suicide by putting a shotgun in his mouth . However , the attempt failed -- he succeeded only in mutilating his lower jaw -- and he later began to wear a grinning mask over the lower part of his face . Twisty then tried to perform as a clown at Elsa 's freak show , but was turned away . Twisty then snapped and went on a killing spree , abducting children to be his audience , while murdering their `` mean '' parents . He kidnaps Corey Bachman and murders his parents , after kidnapping Bonnie Lipton to serve as his audience 's babysitter . Gloria hires Twisty to entertain Dandy , who becomes his accomplice . Twisty and Dandy hold a magic show on Halloween , before Jimmy knocks Dandy unconscious and Maggie gets Corey and Bonnie to safety . Twisty then knocks Jimmy out before encountering Edward Mordrake , who was attracted by the noise of the clown 's performance . Twisty tells Mordrake his story , and Mordrake deems the clown suitable to be in his entourage of damned souls and kills him . When Elsa summons Mordrake in 1962 , Twisty appears alongside the other freaks and comforts her in her last moments . According to director Ryan Murphy , Lynch was so terrifying as this character that `` half the time , almost a third of the crew left the set when they shot his scenes because they were afraid of him . '' In Cult , a comic book detailing a fictionalized version of Twisty is owned by Oz Mayfair - Richards . Bonnie Lipton ( portrayed by Skyler Samuels ) is a young girl who is kidnapped by Twisty , after Twisty murders her boyfriend Troy . She attacks Twisty and attempts to escape with Corey , but is dragged back to him by Dandy . She escapes Twisty with the help of Jimmy and Maggie in `` Edward Mordrake ( Part 2 ) '' . Regina Ross ( portrayed by Gabourey Sidibe as older Regina , Nya Auzenne as young Regina ) is a student at secretary school hoping to get a position at a law firm after graduation , who returns home to Jupiter when her mother Dora goes MIA . In `` Pink Cupcakes '' , she calls Gloria concerning her mother and why she has n't been returning her calls . The conversation turns strange and Regina feels uncomfortable and hangs up , wary of what happened . She turns up at the Mott Manor in `` Blood Bath '' , very suspicious of where her mother is . She threatens to call the police if she does n't see her mother soon . In `` Tupperware Party Massacre '' , Dandy admits to the murder of Dora and lets Regina escape unharmed , despite her refusal to take a blood bath with him . Upon returning with police detective Jack Colquitt , Dandy admits to the murders and boasts about his family 's wealth , buying off Colquitt for a million dollars . Regina is killed when Dandy orders Colquitt to shoot and bury her . Dora Ross ( portrayed by Patti LaBelle ) is a local townswoman who begins to discover secrets about Dandy . She is the mother of Regina and the put - upon maid to Gloria Mott . In `` Massacres and Matinees '' , she reveals to Gloria that she found dissected animal parts behind the shed , implying they belong to Dandy . She dislikes Dandy 's spoiled attitude and did n't get scared of him when he tried to kill her . In `` Edward Mordrake ( Part 2 ) '' , she dies when Dandy slashes her throat and Gloria helps bury her in their backyard . Paul ( portrayed by Mat Fraser ) also known as Paul The Illustrated Seal is a performer in the freak show , who was born with phocomelia of both arms . In `` Edward Mordrake ( Part 2 ) '' , he tells Mordrake that he immigrated to the United States from Britain to be in show business . However , he arrived during the Great Depression . In an act of despair , he tattooed his whole body except his face , because he believed that it would have been considered handsome and loveable if it was n't on a freak . It is revealed that he is not only Elsa 's secret lover , but that of Penny too , his true love . He confronts Elsa in `` Bullseye '' about the recent disappearance of Bette and Dot , and she in turn snaps at him for his relationship with Penny . She later becomes angry about a public confrontation with the rest of the troupe and demands one of them place themselves on the spinning wheel , to prove their trust of her . Paul volunteers and it is assumed she purposely threw the last knife into his gut , injuring him badly , leaving him bed ridden . He is then shocked and guilt - stricken later on in `` Test of Strength '' over Penny 's mutilation . In `` Curtain Call '' , after trying to stand up to Dandy , he is the first freak to be shot and killed during Dandy 's massacre . He and the other freaks appear when Elsa joins the freak show in the afterlife , where he and Penny have gotten married . Eve ( portrayed by Erika Ervin ) also known as Amazon Eve is a performer in the freak show . She is abnormally large . She is seen as the piano player of the show and is also instrumental with protecting the troupe , along with Jimmy and Paul . In `` Bullseye '' , she becomes concerned over Ma Petite 's disappearance until Maggie turns up with her , healthy and alive . Initially , Eve is somewhat quiet and even - tempered , but in `` Test of Strength '' , Dell attempts to murder her in her caravan . Afraid that he is attempting to rape her , Eve defends herself by savagely beating him and throws him out . She goes to Ethel where she cares for her bruised hand . She and the other women of the freak show then plot to kill Dell once and for all . In `` Curtain Call '' , she is the last freak to be killed by Dandy after she tries to overpower him in Desiree 's caravan . She and the other freaks appear when Elsa joins the freak show in the afterlife . Mahadevi Patel ( portrayed by Jyoti Amge ) also known as Ma Petite , is a performer in the freak show , who also serves as Elsa 's assistant . She is seen playing a miniature violin of sorts and also serves as Elsa 's manicurist and `` cuddle '' toy in the later hours . She was born with achondroplasia which results in an extremely short stature , and is thus deemed the world 's shortest woman . Seen as the baby of the troupe , Ma Petite 's sweet nature and naive innocence leads her to trust almost everyone , with ultimately tragic consequences . Maggie lures her away one night attempts to murder her in `` Bullseye '' for Stanley , but ca n't force herself to go through with it . In `` Test of Strength '' , Dell , under the pretense of gifting her with a new dress , hugs her and then squeezes until her spine snaps and she dies . He gives her body to Stanley and it is later seen being presented by Lillian in her Museum of Morbid Curiosities in a jar of formaldehyde , where her birth name is revealed . The carnies later find her bloody dress in an area full of unidentified bones , and believe that she has been eaten by a wild animal . She later appears to Dell in a hallucination before he attempts suicide by hanging . She and the other freaks appear when Elsa joins the freak show in the afterlife , where Ma Petite once again helps Elsa to get ready for her performance . Lillian Hemmings ( portrayed by Celia Weston ) is the curator of the Museum of Morbid Curiosities ; she collects and buys strange artifacts for her museum . She catches Stanley and Maggie 's fraudulence but says if she is offered something of real worth from a freak show , she will pay big money . Stanley regularly imagines scenarios with her presenting him with money and acclaim for his finds . In `` Test of Strength '' , she unveils her new exhibit to various wealthy people of Ma Petite 's dead body ( presented as Mahadevi Patel , the world 's smallest woman ) , floating in a jar of what is assumed to be formaldehyde . In `` Orphans '' , she is seen revealing Jimmy 's claw hands . In `` Show Stoppers '' , it is revealed that she was murdered by Desiree shortly after Maggie 's fainting spell ; her decapitated and preserved head is given to Stanley before the freaks attack and mutilate him . Penny ( portrayed by Grace Gummer ) is a candy striper at the local hospital . In the first episode , she is drugged and kidnapped by Elsa and taken back with her to the freak show . She is blackmailed by Elsa into staying at the camp because Elsa filmed her in a drug - fueled orgy with the freaks . It is later revealed she is in a relationship with Paul , but her father begins to abuse her over the affair . In `` Test of Strength '' , she attempts to move out but before she can do so , her father Vince hires a man to mutilate her face -- tattooing her with scales , giving her a forked tongue , and shaving half her hair off while she is unconscious . She is accepted by the freak show and takes the name The Astounding Lizard Girl . In `` Blood Bath '' , she and the women of the freak show kidnap her father and feather and tar him for what he did , but she spares his life after being persuaded by Maggie . In `` Curtain Call '' , she is shot and killed during Dandy 's massacre . She and the other freaks appear when Elsa joins the freak show in the afterlife , where she and Paul have gotten married .