No . Title Original air date 1 ( 25 ) `` Railgun '' `` Rērugan '' ( 超 電磁 砲 ( レールガン ) ) April 12 , 2013 Following an uncomfortable run in with Misaki Shokuhō , another Level 5 esper from Tokiwadai Middle School , Mikoto Misaka meets up with Kuroko Shirai , Kazari Uiharu , Ruiko Saten and Erii Haruue as they all pay a visit to Banri Edasaki in the hospital . While Erii rekindles with Banri , who is undergoing physiotherapy , Mikoto tries to come up with a way to surprise Banri with a present everyone bought for her , only to realize she had left the bag containing the present in Banri 's ward . Just then , a criminal patient that was under watch by the Anti-Skills is broken free by some of his companions and takes Erii as a hostage . Upon learning of the situation from Aiho Yomikawa and Tsuzuri Tessō , Mikoto heads to the rooftop to try and prevent the culprits escaping via helicopter . They throw Erii off the side of the building in order to break free , but she is saved thanks to Ruiko and Kuroko . Learning that her bag is onboard the fleeing helicopter , Mikoto has Kuroko teleport her to the skies where she destroys the helicopter with her railgun , with Kuroko safely apprehending the culprits . With the incident dealt with , Banri finally opens her present from everyone , which is a Sakugawa Middle School uniform for her to wear once she recovers . 2 ( 26 ) `` Critical '' `` Kuritikaru '' ( 寿命 中断 ( クリティカル ) ) April 19 , 2013 Mikoto recalls in a dream of how , when she was younger , she was approached by scientists wanting to use her DNA map to help cure Duchenne muscular dystrophy . The next morning , Kuroko tries to take Mikoto through an alleyway to get to the mall , but they encounter a few people passing by . They discover this is due to someone hiding envelopes containing cash cards within the alleyways , piquing people 's curiosity to search for them . After running into Ruiko , who is also on the hunt for the money cards , Mikoto overhears some Skill - Outs who have managed to locate the source of the envelopes and decides to follow them . Meanwhile , Ruiko grows curious as she had allegedly seen Mikoto at the mall , despite Mikoto never actually getting there , with Mii Konori explaining to Kazari about a rumor of there being clones of a Level 5 esper . The Skill - Outs eventually trace the envelopes back to a Nagatenjōki Academy student , demanding she hand over the other envelopes . Things get tense , however , when it appears the Skill - Outs are gradually getting killed off by the girl , who claims to be able to freely kill anyone she has touched . When Mikoto arrives on the scene , the girl , who had simply knocked out all the Skill - Outs using anesthetic and clever acting skills , recognizes her as the `` original '' . 3 ( 27 ) `` Project Radio Noise '' `` Redio Noizu Keikaku '' ( 超 電磁 砲 量産 計画 ( レディオ ノイズ けい かく ) ) April 26 , 2013 Mikoto is reminded of rumors about there being a clone of her and attempts to question the girl , who was distributing the envelopes in order to fill the alleyways that security cameras can not reach with human eyes . However , the girl leaves after inadvertently setting the building on fire whilst burning the evidence , simply stating Mikoto is better off not knowing as she would be unable to stop what was happening with her power . After saving the Skill - Outs , Mikoto looks up for information on the girl , whose name is revealed to be Shinobu Nunotaba , who actually worked at the same medical facility where she had given the scientists her DNA map years ago . Mikoto infiltrates the facility and comes across a room that is separate from the rest of the building 's network . Mikoto hacks into database there and is shocked to learn that the scientists tricked her into giving them her DNA map in order to create clones called `` Sisters '' , known as Project Radio Noise . However , the project was cancelled when the supercomputer , Tree Diagram , deduced that the clones would not come close to matching Mikoto 's level of power . Believing there were not any clones of her after all , Mikoto feels relieved and leaves the facility , unaware of a clone arriving later to delete the database . 4 ( 28 ) `` Sisters '' `` Shisutāzu '' ( 妹 達 ( シスターズ ) ) May 3 , 2013 Three months earlier , in an unknown facility , a pair of women scientists , later recognized as Yumi Kusakabe and Eiga Kanmi , had mentored the birth of a clone of Mikoto , labelled Misaka 9982 , installing memory functions via a capsule - like machine called Testament . Back in the present , Mikoto , who is feeling cheerful with the clone rumors being seemingly debunked , goes shopping with Kuroko and the others at the mall , helping Kazari and Erii buy a rice cooker whilst also picking out things for an upcoming school trip . The next day , as Mikoto ends up having nothing to do , some young children , including the girl whose bag she previously found , pick up on her boredom and have her play with them . Noticing one of the kids wearing a Gekota badge , Mikoto frantically goes through a whole bunch of capsule vendors in order to win one for herself . As the day comes to an end , Mikoto suddenly senses a power identical to her own and , upon chasing after its source , comes across Misaka 9982 . 5 ( 29 ) `` Project Level 6 Shift '' `` Reberu Shikkusu Shifuto Keikaku '' ( 絶対 能力 進化 計画 ( レベル 6 シフト けい かく ) ) May 10 , 2013 After unwillingly helping her rescue a kitten from a tree , Mikoto tries to question Misaka 9982 , but is unable to learn much due to being unable to decipher a codeword . She instead decides to follow her around in case she returns to her base of operations , where they end up doing some surprisingly sisterly activities . Later that evening , as Misaka 9982 points out that she is not returning to her point of origin , Mikoto takes her leave after inadvertently giving her the Gekota badge she won earlier . After receiving some help from Kazari in deciphering the codeword she was told about , Mikoto is horrified to learn of Project Level 6 Shift , in which 20,000 Sisters from Project Radio Noise are to be killed in 20,000 battles in order to evolve Academy City 's most powerful Level 5 esper , Accelerator , into a Level 6 esper . Whilst learning of this , Misaka 9982 engages in her assigned battle with the aforementioned Accelerator , finding herself helpless against his reflective abilities . Fleeing to a railway yard , she attempts a sneak attack on Accelerator using a planted mine , only for him to survive and tear off her leg . Mikoto arrives on the scene , only to look in horror as Accelerator crushes Misaka 9982 to death with a train , sending Mikoto into a furious rage . 6 ( 30 ) `` I ... Can See All of You '' `` Atashi ... Minna no Koto Miete Irukara '' ( あたし ... みんなの こと 見え て いる から ) May 17 , 2013 Mikoto unleashes her anger at Accelerator , who quickly deduces she is the original , and becomes further enraged upon seeing Misaka 9982 's torn leg and hearing Accelerator 's selfish reasons for participating in the experiment . However , even her most powerful attacks are simply reflected back at her . Just then , the fight is halted by the arrival of dozens of other Sisters , who request that Accelerator stop fighting Mikoto to avoid throwing off the experiment 's calculations . As Accelerator takes his leave , Mikoto feels no comfort in hearing the Sisters acknowledge themselves as nothing more than guinea pigs . After a restless night , Mikoto is approached by Shinobu , who explains why she chose to oppose the experiment . Having been called back from Project Radio Noise to assist in Project Level 6 Shift , Shinobu got to see the sensitive side of one of the Sisters and became unable to see them as anything other than human . Upon hearing this , Mikoto takes it upon herself to destroy the facilities involved in the experiment , keeping it a secret from Kuroko and the others . 7 ( 31 ) `` I ... I Want To Be of Help To You , Sissy '' `` Onee - sama no Chikara ni Naritai desu no '' ( お 姉 さま の 力 に なりたい です の ) May 24 , 2013 Eliminating as many facilities involved with Project Level 6 Shift through electronic warfare before she is shut out from their communication lines , Mikoto starts spending several nights attacking the other facilities directly . Kuroko , who has grown concerned about Mikoto constantly being out at night , comes across a group of girls who are looking for a `` lucky card '' , based on an urban legend spawned from the cash card incident . The next day , Kuroko encounters one of the girls , Minori , saving her from being hit by a car during her search , hearing how she wanted to find a lucky item for her friend who is moving away . After pointing out cash cards would be out of the question , since they would need to be turned into Judgment , Konori suggests that they instead search for a four - leaf clover . During their search , Kazari and Ruiko give Kuroko some assurance that Mikoto , along with themselves , appreciate her efforts . Both Kuroko and Minori find four - leaved clovers , with Kuroko keeping hers and resolving to always wait for Mikoto . Meanwhile , as Mikoto manages to dwindle down the remaining facilities to two , Kites Knockraven , a higher up in the project , prepare a counter-plan . 8 ( 32 ) `` ITEM '' `` Aitemu '' ( ITEM ( アイテム ) ) May 31 , 2013 With only two facilities remaining , Knockraven calls upon the services of the mercenary team ITEM . As Mikoto infiltrates one of these facilities , she finds herself against one of its members , Frenda Seivelun , who causes trouble for her using flammable tape and stuffed dolls containing bombs . Meanwhile , Shinobu arrives at the other remaining facility , where they are attempting to transport the data whilst the other facility is being attacked . Mikoto chases down Frenda who , after a series of failed attacks , fills the room up with nitrogen , bluffing that it is an explosive gas to prevent Mikoto from using her electricity against her . However , Mikoto , refusing to simply give up and be killed , manages to fight back against Frenda , leading to her bluff becoming exposed . As Mikoto tries to interrogate Frenda , who is unable to respond due to being shocked by her , she is suddenly attacked by ITEM 's leader and the fourth ranked Level 5 esper , Shizuri Mugino . 9 ( 33 ) `` AIM Stalker '' `` Ei Ai Emu Sutōkā '' ( 能力 追 迹 ( AIM ストーカー ) ) June 7 , 2013 Mikoto attempts to escape from Shizuri 's attacks , which proves difficult due to ITEM 's third member , Rikō Takitsubo , using her AIM Stalker ability to help Shizuri and Frenda home their attacks on her position . Meanwhile , Shinobu , who felt Mikoto should not have to carry her burden alone , sneaks into the basement of her facility where the incubated Sisters are being held , hoping to install emotions into all of the remaining Sisters via the Misaka Network in the hopes that it may move the organizers to suspend the experiments . However , she is apprehended by ITEM 's fourth member , Saiai Kinuhata , who was guarding the facility in case a second party was involved in the attacks . Shinobu manages to get the program installing , but it is suddenly blocked by an unforeseen error code . Shinobu fires a gun at Saiai to save herself , but her attack fails due to Saiai 's Offense Armor ability and she is taken into custody . Back at the other facility , a weakened Mikoto is forced to use her ability to deflect Shizuri 's Meltdowner attack , making her realize who the intruder 's identity is . Learning of this , Shizuri decides to send the injured Frenda and exhausted Rikō away so she can settle things with Mikoto herself . 10 ( 34 ) `` Meltdowner '' `` Merutodaunā '' ( 原子 崩し ( メルト ダウナー ) ) June 14 , 2013 Coming face to face with Shizuri , Mikoto uses some of the explosive dolls that Frenda inadvertently left behind to compensate for her weakened powers . Shizuri fights off these dolls by using silicon shards cards to divide her lasers , but Mikoto manages to knock her out with one of the remaining dolls . After finding and destroying the facility 's data bank , Mikoto finds herself on the run from an angered Shizuri . Fleeing to a bridge , Mikoto manages to get the best of Shizuri by using Frenda 's flammable tape to collapse the walkway underneath her and cause her to fall down . As Mikoto makes her escape , Shizuri manages to learn about Project Level 6 Shift from one of the staff and decides it would be more amusing to let Mikoto suffer . The next day , Mikoto investigates the remaining facility , only to find it completely abandoned , allegedly having gone bankrupt . Believing the experiments to finally be over , Mikoto comes across Tōma Kamijō by the vending machines . 11 ( 35 ) `` The Vending Machine '' `` Jidō Hanbaiki '' ( 自動 販売 機 ) June 21 , 2013 Mikoto runs into Tōma , who appears to have trouble remembering who she is , and vandalizes a vending machine to spit out drinks to compensate for some money it had stolen from him . Kuroko arrives on the scene and , despite not being pleased over the presence of a supposed `` boyfriend '' , feels relieved that Mikoto appears to be back to her cheerful self and takes her leave . However , Mikoto 's joy is short - lived when another Sister , Misaka 10031 , appears before her , telling her in private that the experiments are still ongoing . Horrified to learn more Sisters have died because of her , Mikoto ends up yelling at Misaka 10031 for reminding her of Misaka 9982 . Later discovering that countless other facilities have picked up the experiment , Mikoto comes to realize that her enemy is Academy City itself . Meanwhile , Accelerator recalls how he was first approached about Project Level 6 Shift . Deciding that she will need to do something drastic in order to stop the experiments , Mikoto feels relieved that Kuroko would still perform her duty as a Judgment officer should she be labelled a criminal for doing so . 12 ( 36 ) `` Tree Diagram '' `` Tsurī Daiaguramu '' ( 樹 形 図 の 設計 者 ( ツリー ダイアグラム ) ) June 28 , 2013 Mikoto resolves to hack into and destroy the Tree Diagram , the supercomputer responsible for the experiment 's calculations , in the hope she may be able to stop them . Meanwhile , Tōma encounters Misaka 10032 , who coerces him into helping her look after an abandoned kitten she had found . As Tōma goes into a bookstore to look for a book to help him with his own cat , Misaka 10032 goes off to observe Accelerator as he begins his scheduled battle with Misaka 10031 . Arriving at Tree Diagram 's control center , hoping to hack into Tree Diagram to order a halt to the experiment , Mikoto is confused to find it not only heavily low on security , but completely abandoned as well . Hacking into the system , she is horrified to learn the truth , in that Tree Diagram had been destroyed for months , with the experiments continuing regardless . 13 ( 37 ) `` Accelerator '' `` Akuserarēta '' ( 一方 通行 ( アクセラレータ ) ) July 5 , 2013 Mikoto falls in despair , realizing that with Tree Diagram destroyed , she has no way of stopping the experiments . She tries to cling onto her cause by mercilessly destroying another facility , but loses all hope when she sees a live feed of Misaka 10031 being killed by Accelerator . As Accelerator reminisces about his first experiment and his first time killing a Sister , Tōma discovers Misaka 10031 's corpse and calls the Anti-Skills to investigate it , only to find it gone when they arrive , with no evidence it ever occurred . After the Anti-Skills leave , Misaka 10032 appears before Tōma , who comes to learn the true nature of the Sisters . Upon learning this , Tōma heads for the Tokiwadai dorms to try to get some answers from Mikoto , who at the same time is contemplating her last resort . 14 ( 38 ) `` The Promise '' `` Yakusoku '' ( 約束 ) July 12 , 2013 Tōma arrives at the Tokiwadai dorms , where he is reluctantly greeted by Kuroko , who decides to let him wait for Mikoto return . When the Tokiwadai Dorm Supervisor comes by for an inspection , Kuroko is forced to hide Tōma under Mikoto 's bed due to his Imagine Breaker negating her teleportation . There , he finds the details concerning Project Level 6 Shift stuffed inside a teddy bear , learning that Misaka 10032 's experiment is next . Tōma follows a trail of windmills to a bridge where he eventually finds Mikoto and confronts her about the experiments . With all her other efforts failed , Mikoto feels convinced that letting herself be killed by Accelerator is the only way to stop the experiments , proving she does not live up to Tree Diagram 's expectations . However , Tōma , feeling her way will not save anyone , decides to stand in her way , refusing to fight back or even defend himself from Mikoto 's lightning . Mikoto 's emotions soon build up into a large shock wave that Tōma takes the full brunt of , helping her to see his resolve . After regaining consciousnesses and being greeted by a tearful Mikoto , Tōma comes up with the idea that if he as a Level 0 can defeat the Level 5 Accelerator in a fight and prove him to be actually weak , the entire basis for the experiments would fall apart . Despite Mikoto 's objection , Tōma heads off to where Misaka 10032 's experiment is being held . 15 ( 39 ) `` Tōma Kamijō '' `` Kamijō Tōma '' ( 最 弱 ( かみ じょう と うま ) ) July 19 , 2013 Despite his injuries , Tōma arrives at the site where Accelerator and Misaka 10032 are fighting and states his firm desire to rescue the Sister , saying that even if she is a clone , there is only one of her in the entire world . As their fight begins , Tōma initially struggles against Accelerator as he launches projectiles at him and sets off a dust explosion . However , Accelerator is shocked when Tōma is able to punch him with his right hand without being affected by his ability , also coming as a surprise to Mikoto , who had also rushed to the scene . Angered , Accelerator starts using his ability to manipulate the wind , creating a huge hurricane that deals a lot of damage to Tōma . Mikoto attempts to go with her original plan in order to save Tōma , only to realize it would be futile upon witnessing Accelerator using his power to create a plasma storm that would wipe out everything in the area . Realizing what can be done to stop it , Mikoto goes over to Misaka 10032 and begs for her help in protecting Tōma 's dream . Moved by these words , Misaka 10032 uses the Misaka Network to command the other Sisters in Academy City to manipulate the city 's windmills with their electricity , affecting the wind and disrupting Accelerator 's calculations , preventing him from stabilizing the plasma . As Mikoto prepares to stand off against Accelerator once more , Tōma gathers the strength to stand up . 16 ( 40 ) `` Sisterhood '' `` Shimai '' ( 姉妹 ) July 26 , 2013 Accelerator demands to know why Mikoto is protecting Misaka 10032 , to which she responds that it is simply because she is her sister . Before Accelerator can attempt to kill them , Tōma manages to regain his footing and uses the remainder of his strength to knock Accelerator out with one final punch . As he loses consciousness , Accelerator comes to the realization that the reason he wanted to become a Level 6 in the first place was so that he would not have to hurt anyone anymore . After the experiments are cancelled as a result of Accelerator 's defeat , Mikoto goes to the hospital to visit Tōma , who assures her that even though many Sisters died , it was thanks to her that they got to be born in the first place . Afterwards , Mikoto takes a walk with Misaka 10032 , where they play with another pair of sisters at the playground and think about the future that lies ahead . The next day , Mikoto borrows Ruiko 's kitchen to make some handmade cookies for Tōma as thanks for his help . Despite not getting an opportunity to give them to him , Mikoto feels pleased when he finally calls her by her proper name . 17 ( 41 ) `` Study Group '' `` Benkyō - kai '' ( 勉強 会 ) August 2 , 2013 When asked by the Dorm Supervisor to explain her absences , Mikoto bluffs that she was having study sessions with her friends . As Ruiko arranges a get together so she can hear who Mikoto was making cookies for the other day , Kuroko comes across Minori again before being dragged along by Mitsuko Kongō to a pet shop . Meanwhile , Mikoto visits Heaven Canceller to hear about the status of the Sisters , learning they are being reconfigured so they may live longer than their originally intended two year lifespan . As Mikoto and Kuroko meet up at a family restaurant , they come across Shizuri and Frenda , leading to an awkward argument between Kuroko and Frenda over their respective partners , which is inevitably followed by an explosive punishment . After having a nabe party with everyone , Kuroko is relieved to see Mikoto back to her usual self . 18 ( 42 ) `` Moving '' `` O Hikkoshi '' ( お 引越し ) August 16 , 2013 A mysterious organization oversees ITEM as they fight against a group of mechs . The next day , Mikoto and the gang visit Banri , who is due to be discharged from the hospital soon and will be moving into an apartment with Erii , who will be moving out of Kazari 's apartment as a result . As the gang discuss about the move , Kuroko and Kazari reveals Judgement will be on duty for the upcoming Academy City Research Exhibition Assembly , where Academy City 's top genius students will attend . Meanwhile , Mitsuko uses her power to stop a purse thief , only to be berated by a certain man for her actions . As the group gets together to celebrate Banri 's dischargement , Kuroko and Kazari are called off for Judgment duties when the city 's traffic signals suddenly go out . After finishing her duties , Kazari gives a box of taiyaki to Erii , serving as a memento of when she first told Erii about her ability of temperature preservation , and the two have a tearful farewell as roommates . As the group take a detour home , they come across a curious white - haired girl named Febri , who appears to know Mikoto . Meanwhile , the mysterious organization begins their next plan to show their power against espers . 19 ( 43 ) `` Academic Research Assembly '' `` Gakuentoshi Kenkyū Happyōkai '' ( 学園 都市 研究 発表 会 ) August 23 , 2013 The girls are unable to find out any more information from Febri , who appears to be a bit cautious around Mikoto and takes a liking with Ruiko . After Febri spends a night with Ruiko at Kazari 's apartment , the group , believing Febri to be a Child Error , make arrangements for her to be moved to the orphanage in Asunaro Park in a week . As the gang heads to where the Academy City Research Exhibition Assembly will be held , Ruiko sets up some time for Mikoto to get along with Febri on their own . When Febri wanders off while Mikoto is not looking , the man from before spots her and sends some security bots after her . Luckily , Mikoto manages to rescue Febri , who apologizes for making her worry and comes to accept her . With Mikoto now involved , the man and his colleagues decide to include her in their experiments . 20 ( 44 ) `` Febri '' `` Feburi '' ( フェブリ ) August 30 , 2013 As Yomikawa becomes curious over how the security bots functioned without any batteries , Konori treats Mikoto and the others by taking them to the public baths , where Mikoto lets Febri keep her rare pink Gekota finger puppet from her collection . Whilst heading home , the girls are led on a detour to a warehouse , where they are attacked by a mech . As Mikoto fights against the mech , which seems resiliant to her electricity , the mech suddenly stops functioning when it comes close to attacking Febri , allowing Mitsuko to defeat it with her Aero Hand ability . After Mikoto discovers the mech to be curiously unmanned , Febri comes down with a fever and is admitted into the hospital . Meanwhile , it is shown that Shinobu is working with the group targeting Febri . Back at the hospital , Mitsuko informs the others about how she , Kinuho Wannai and Maaya Awatsuki came to learn that the man from before was attempting to `` reclaim '' Febri . The next morning as Febri seems to make a full recovery , Heaven Canceller informs Mikoto in private that Febri is in fact an artificial human . 21 ( 45 ) `` Darkness '' `` Yami '' ( 闇 ) September 6 , 2013 Heaven Canceller goes on to explain to Mikoto that Febri 's body secretes a poison , requiring her to suck special lollipops to neutralize it , leaving her angry that another dark organization is performing twisted experiments . Whilst keeping this a secret from the others , Mikoto runs into Misaka 10032 who , having visited Febri the previous night , informs her that Febri had been wanting to meet her own big sister . She also reveals Febri gained her knowledge via Testament , leading Mikoto to believe Shinobu is involved . After receiving a call from Mitsuko about the importance of trusting friends , Mikoto realizes she should not have to do this alone and decides to inform Kuroko and the others about Febri 's condition , becoming surprised and relieved to find they are more than willing to help . As Mikoto and her friends tries to find clues related to Febri , Yomikawa gives Mikoto a capsule found in the unmanned mech suit . Heaven Canceller examines the capsule which contains a strand of hair similar to Febri 's , possibly belonging to her sister . However , he also reveals to Mikoto that Febri only has enough lollipops to stay alive for another 72 hours . With Mikoto deciding to face the darkness of Academy City once more in order to save Febri , Heaven Canceller arranges for her to meet someone familiar with the underground , that being Therestina Kihara Lifeline . 22 ( 46 ) `` STUDY '' ( STUDY ) September 13 , 2013 Despite being mocked by Therestina , Mikoto refuses to leave until she gets information to save Febri . Therestina hesitantly reveals that Febri is an artificial human called a Chemicaloid , which her creators were going to showcase at the Academy City Research Exhibition Assembly . Mikoto tells the others about Febri 's condition . Mitsuko , Kinoho and Maaya help Kazari identify the mysterious man as Haruki Aritomi , a longtime winner of the Academy City Research Exhibition Assembly . Kazari discovers that Aritomi and other student geniuses formed the STUDY Corporation and purchased a factory , which Kazari suspects is where Febri and her lollipops were being made . Mikoto heads to the factory , spots ITEM fighting mechs sent by STUDY and overhears that the mechs are controlled via a form of psychogenesis by the capsules inside them . After ITEM leaves , Mikoto enters the factory and finds Shinobu , who had taught Febri how to say Mikoto 's name so she would be protected by her . Shinobu gives Mikoto the data to make more neutralizer lollipops , only to learn from Aritomi that the information is fake , as this confirms that he suspected Shinobu was a traitor . Aritomi orders Shinobu to inject Mikoto with a tranquilizer in exchange the real neutralizer data , but after Shinobu does it , Aritomi breaks his word and destroys the data . Febri is revealed to be a spare to his true project , Janie . 23 ( 47 ) `` Dawn of a Revolution ( Silent Party ) '' `` Kakumei Mimei '' ( 革命 未明 ( Silent Party ) ) September 20 , 2013 Aritomi reveals he started Project Chemicaloid , which created Janie and Febri due to his bitterness that espers gain fame and recognition while intellectuals like him are ignored . To finally show their power , STUDY found a way to mass - produce espers which will bring forth a revolution upon Academy City tomorrow . Later , Shinobu explains to Mikoto how she was sold to STUDY after being captured by ITEM and was forced to work on the Chemicaloids , which were born from her research , becoming determined to save them . Using her own electricity to counter the paralysis in her body , Mikoto assures Shinobu that she does not need to take everything on by herself . Kuroko and the others arrive to rescue Mikoto , whilst Shinobu chooses to stay behind in order to do her part . After learning that 20,000 mechs , controlled by Janie 's Diffusion Ghost ability , have been snuck into the Academy City Research Exhibition Assembly , with the Anti-Skills prevented from interfering , the girls make preparations to save Shinobu , Febri and Janie . The next morning , Kuroko , Kazari , Ruiko , Konori , Mitsuko , Kinoho and Maaya step up to face the mechs , whilst Mikoto and Febri head off in search of Janie . 24 ( 48 ) `` Eternal Party '' ( Eternal Party ) September 27 , 2013 The entirety of Judgment joins Kuroko and the others in fighting off against STUDY 's mechs . Meanwhile , Mikoto and Febri arrive at STUDY 's hidden base at a stadium , fighting off against the mechs that Aritomi sends against them . STUDY responds by sending a signal to cut off everyone 's communications and sending more advanced mechs after each group . However , they overcome this thanks to Erii and Banri setting up a network of telepaths , with Kazari and Ruiko piloting their own mech that Mitsuko 's father sent over , whilst ITEM help to destroy the mechs sent after Mikoto . Mikoto and Febri soon arrive at the underground base , where Aritomi , having no other plans to stop her , resorts to initiating the final phase in which he reveals his secret weapon : a cluster missile from space containing Diffusion Ghost that will destroy Academy City and everyone who is in it , by causing a chain reaction with the city 's AIM fields . Aritomi attempts to kill himself , only to be stopped by Mikoto , who is determined to save everyone . With the assistance of the Sisters , Mikoto rides in Mitsuko 's mech and launches into the atmosphere , using the mech as ammunition for a massive railgun to destroy the missile . After freeing Janie from STUDY 's control and reuniting her with Febri , who is given more neutralizer lollipops , Shinobu makes plans to bring the twins to an overseas research facility to cure their condition . After saying their goodbyes to Shinobu and the twins , Mikoto and the gang discuss their upcoming vacation . Bonus `` All the Important Things I Learned in a Bathhouse '' `` Daiji na Koto wa Zenbu Sentō ni Osowatta '' ( 大事 な こと は ぜんぶ 銭湯 に 教わっ た ) March 27 , 2014 As the local bathhouse comes under threat of being closed down , Mii enlists the help of Mikoto , Kuroko , Kazari and Ruiko to help promote interest , coming up with a Mikoto - powered `` electric bath '' to bring in more customers . At first , the baths become a success which attracts the attention of Erii , Mitsuko , Wannai , Atsuki , Yomikawa , Tsuzuri , Komoe , Shizuri , Frenda , Saiai , Rikō and the Dorm Supervisor . However , the baths are almost ruined after Kuroko adds too much bubble bath soap in one of her schemes to seduce Mikoto . After the customers go home , the girls celebrate by having a bath and drinking milk .