Shortly afterwards , the lower half of Hirudegarn appears and begins attacking the city . Gohan and Videl rush to the city 's aid , but are unable to deal any damage until Tapion appears , playing a mysterious tune on an ocarina which weakens Hirudegarn and causes him to vanish . Later on , however , while Trunks is bringing Tapion some food , Hoi suddenly appears and tries to steal Tapion 's ocarina . Hoi claims that Tapion himself is the evil threat to the Earth and that the ocarina must be destroyed for them to stop Tapion . In the ensuing scuffle , Trunks gets hold of the ocarina , but chooses to believe Tapion and returns it to him , while Hoi flees . Tapion accepts Trunks as a friend and is invited to the Capsule Corp. compound . While there , he explains his story to Bulma : a thousand years ago , an evil race of alien magicians , the Kashvaar , who at sometime proclaimed themselves as the superior race and set out to destroy all life different from their own in the universe by awakening an ancient monster known as Hirudegarn . Their conquest eventually brought them to the planet Konats , Tapion 's homeworld . During the ensuing battle , a Konatsian priest discovered a magic sword and two ocarinas capable of stopping Hirudegarn . Tapion and his younger brother Minosha kept Hirudegarn at bay with the ocarinas while the priest cleaved the monster in half with the sword . In the aftermath , in order to ensure Hirudegarn would never again be released , the Konatsian War Council decided to seal Hirudegarn 's two halves away inside Tapion and Minosha , magically seal them inside music boxes , and send them to the opposite sides of the universe until the Kashvaar were brought to justice . Hoi , who is the last of the Kashvaar , has already killed Minosha ( as seen in the prologue ) , and now seeks out Tapion in order to complete Hirudegarn and conquer the universe . Bulma offers to build Tapion a bedroom using the components of the music box so that Tapion can sleep without Hirudegarn escaping from him .