Team challenge : The teams were called down to the dining room , where they were presented with a huge array of cheeses . Each member will pick one member from the opposite team they want to go up against . The chosen chef will then spin the wheel to determine what cheese dish they 'll be making . Then , they 'll have to make it with one of the international cheeses that suit their dish the most . Monique and Nick faced off first with grilled cheese sandwiches , and Nick 's sandwich easily beat out Monique 's bland and overly simplistic sandwich . Milly was worried about his enchiladas , but Ramsay liked them ; however , Meghan 's enchiladas were judged to be truly outstanding and won the point . Adam and Christine both earned a point for their cordon bleu dishes , as did Josh and Michelle with their manicottis . Alison 's potato croquette won the point by default , as Brendan did n't even know what a croquette was and instead presented a gnocchi , though Alison 's dish was noted to be very good all the same . Randy then earned a point for his traditional lasagne , with Ramsay not particularly appreciating Sarah 's unusual pistachio - filled lasagne . On the final round , T clinched the winning point for her calzone ; both her dish and Bret 's were deemed to be good , but Bret 's calzone had noticeably raw dough , resulting in the women winning their fourth consecutive challenge . Reward / punishment : The women went jet skiing in Marina Del Ray while the men are tasked to break pieces off of the Parmesan cheese wheel where they have to prep it by grating the cheese which will then be served as part of tonight 's table - side , much to the amusement of James . Service : This service 's table - side appetizer was Parmesan frica , served by Alison and Nick for their respective teams . Daddy Yankee and Dave Mustaine both appeared as guests for this service . The women started off well thanks to Meghan 's strong leadership on the appetizer section , but were soon backed up by Monique constantly serving bland , under - cooked garnishes . Meghan jumped on the garnish section , but in her absence Sarah quickly fell apart handling the remaining appetizers , and Christine also had to be repeatedly told how to cook the salmon , and yet still sent it up raw . Ramsay brought the team into the pantry to give them a final warning , only for Christine 's next order of salmon to turn out to be burnt , leading to the whole team being ejected . The men got off to a slower start due to Adam having initial problems with the risotto , but he soon got it together and got the remaining appetizers out without trouble . Bret also overcooked their first order of salmon , but likewise got his remaining orders out correctly . The main problem faced by the team was Brendan 's weak performance on the meat station , as he struggled to give the other chefs correct times , and ended up holding up the kitchen for fifteen minutes while waiting for a rack of lamb to cook . Despite this , the team was eventually able to complete service , and were named the winners for the second week in a row . Ramsay was so disgusted by the red team 's performance that he sent sous chef Andi up to the dorms to tell them to nominate two people for elimination . Elimination : The women quickly decided on Monique as the first nominee , but were divided between Sarah and Christine as the second . Despite Christine being considered more directly at fault for the service 's failure , the women decided to nominate Sarah along with Monique , feeling that she would have done even worse than Christine without Meghan 's close supervision . While Ramsay felt that Sarah was falling apart and did not have the strength of character needed to compete in Hell 's Kitchen , he eliminated Monique for her refusal to admit any of the mistakes she made , being totally shunned by her team , consistently poor performances , and lack of improvement over five services . Ramsay 's comment : `` Monique acted like she was the victim , but the real victim was anyone who had to eat her food tonight . ''