Jason West ( Robert Wilfort ) -- Stacey 's gay older brother , who lives in Spain . Dawn Sutcliffe ( Julia Davis ) -- a close friend of Pam and Mick , who frequently has public arguments with husband Pete . Peter `` Pete '' Sutcliffe ( Adrian Scarborough ) -- a close friend of Pam and Mick , husband to Dawn , with whom he frequently has public arguments . David Lloyd ' Dave `` Coaches '' ' Gooch ( Steffan Rhodri ) -- local coach driver , later fiancé to Nessa . He appeared in the first episode when Stacey went to London to meet Gavin . Doris O'Neill ( Margaret John ) -- elderly but lively neighbour to Gwen , and close friend of the West family . Ruth ' Rudi ' Smith ( Sheridan Smith ) -- Smithy 's immature , but loving , younger sister who also likes to be called ' Smithy ' . Works at a fast food restaurant in Billericay . Catherina ' Cath ' Smith ( Pam Ferris ) -- Smithy 's single mother , suffers from ' a mild form of narcolepsy ' ( which Pam thinks is a cover for a drinking problem ) . Dirtbox ( Andrew Knott ) -- a friend of Gavin and Smithy . Deano ( Mathew Baynton ) -- a friend of Gavin and Smithy 's , who works with Smithy as a builder and appears to be very dim - witted . Budgie ( Russell Tovey ) -- a friend of Gavin and Smithy . Chinese Alan ( Dominic Gaskell ) -- a friend of Gavin and Smithy , he has this nickname despite not being Chinese but it appears to be connected with his catchphrase ; ' Did someone order a Chinese ? ' . Craig ' Fingers ' ( Samuel Anderson ) -- a friend of Gavin and Smithy , who has an on / off relationship with Stacey 's friend Louise , after they meet at the wedding and have sex in a back room . Jesus ( Daniel Curtis ) -- a friend of Gavin and Smithy . Gary ( Jason Gregg ) and Simon -- friends of Gavin and Smithy , who are never just Gary or Simon . Swede ( John Grisley ) -- a friend of Gavin and Smithy . Louise ( Ffion Williams ) -- a friend of Stacey and Nessa , who has an on / off relationship with Gavin and Smithy 's friend Fingers , after they meet at the wedding and have sex in a back room . Anje ( Beth Granville ) -- a friend of Stacey and Nessa . Neil Jenkins ( Huw Dafydd ) -- Nessa 's father , rarely seen in Barry , came for Neil the Baby 's christening . Owain Hughes ( Steve Meo ) -- Website Manager in Gavin 's new job in Cardiff . He has the cocky but confusing catchphrase : ' Owain Hughes , and before you ask , no I do n't ' . Dick Powell ( Gwynfor Roberts ) -- the only full Welsh speaking inhabitant of Barry ( aside from the Welsh nationalists in the caravan park ) , he works on the black market selling meat . Neil Noel Edmond ' the Baby ' Smith ( Ewan Kennedy , Oscar Hartland ) -- Smithy and Nessa 's son and named after both Smithy and Nessa 's father who are both called Neil ( first name ) , Nessa 's mate from Hear'Say , Noel Sullivan and Smithy 's Grandad Edmond ( middle name ) . In the episode of the christening , Gavin humorously says that Neil is named after Noel Edmonds .