Smart Ass ( voiced by David Lander ) -- Smart Ass is the smartest , wisecracking leader of the weasels and ranked a sergeant by Judge Doom . He has brown fur and wears a light pink double breasted zoot suit coat with a gold chain in the left pocket , a white dress shirt with a reddish pink , bejewelled tie , a matching pink zoot hat with a darker pink band , and spats on his feet . His weapon of choice is a revolver , though in the bar scene he is shown threatening Eddie Valiant with a switchblade . He is rude , sarcastic ( hence his name ) , sadistic like the rest of his ' men ' , and seems pretty eager to please his boss . He is a frequent committer of malaprops , but does not really seem to notice or care . Smart Ass proves to be the most disciplined of the weasels , as he has more control over his laughter and tries to get his cohorts to follow suit . He is the third weasel to die in the film , but not by losing control of his laughter : after he disagrees with a lyric Eddie `` entertains '' the weasels with , Eddie kicks him in the crotch , sending him into the reservoir of Judge Doom 's Dip sprayer , thus unlike the others , his angel does not appear after his death . Greasy ( voiced by Charles Fleischer , Roger Rabbit 's Car Toon Spin voiced by Jeff Bergman ) -- Greasy is the Mexican second - in - command of the weasels , and has long greasy black hair and dark brown fur . He wears a green zoot suit styled trench coat and trousers hiked up all the way to his chest , a partially obscured pink tie and white dress shirt , as well as a tall green zoot hat and spectator shoes , and is slightly overweight . His weapon of choice is a switchblade knife , although at one point in Eddie Valiant 's apartment , he is seen wielding a revolver . He is mostly shown speaking English with a heavy accent , and curses in Spanish when Roger shoots into the Acme Factory via a storm drain , propelling Greasy and himself up towards the ceiling , and when he springs a bear trap hidden in the top of Jessica Rabbit 's dress . He also appears perverted , as he quickly takes Judge Doom 's orders to search Jessica for Acme 's will as an opportunity to feel her . He is the fourth weasel to die after losing control of his laughter , and drops dead out of the cab of the Dip Machine , putting it in gear as he does so before his corpse dissolves into an ink by the Dip . Psycho ( voiced by Charles Fleischer , Roger Rabbit 's Car Toon Spin voiced by Jim Cummings ) -- Psycho is the most mentally unstable of the group of weasels . He has a shrilling laugh and high - pitched voice . Psycho wears an unbuckled straitjacket , has a lighter , tanner muzzle , blue eyes with yellow and white swirls characterizing his insanity , and unkempt fur by the hairline , giving it a spiky appearance . His weapon of choice is a barbershop straight razor . He is the last weasel to die by laughing hard enough to lose his balance and fall into the machinery of the Dip sprayer . As his soul rises to heaven , it pushes one of the levels back up so the Dip could spray Roger and Jessica and the straitjacket sleeves buckle themselves together . Wheezy ( voiced by June Foray ) -- Wheezy is a heavy smoker . Unlike his compatriots , who all have brown fur , his fur is smoky blue and has long , nicotine - stained fingers . He is dressed in a wrinkled dress shirt , black vest , pork pie hat with cigarettes stuffed into the band , and loose black tie , all of which are stained to some degree from nicotine . His weapon of choice is a 1940s Tommy gun , though he only uses it once , when he was searching Eddie Valiant 's office . When he has cigarettes in his mouth , he has a harsh , raspy voice and when he does not , he has a deep voice , as shown when he says `` Let 's go ! '' after Eddie Valiant and Roger Rabbit free Benny the Cab . Wheezy is the second weasel to die as his soul escapes while he is hanging from a ladder , he tries to pull it back but to no avail , then his corpse dissolves into an ink by the Dip . Wheezy was once thought to be female , since he was voiced by a woman . Stupid ( voiced by Fred Newman ) -- Stupid is the dumbest of the weasels , though he appears to be more childish than unintelligent . He wears a horizontally striped blue and white T - shirt , a red beanie with a yellow propeller on top , and white tennis shoes that are constantly untied . He has a pigeon - toed stance , and his weapon of choice is a baseball bat with a nail in it . He is also very chubby . Stupid has only one line in the film `` Uh , Toontown 's right on the other side of the wall , boss ! '' . He is the first weasel to die after losing control of his laughter , knocking himself over the head several times before keeling over and his hands were seen clutching a lily before his corpse dissolves into an ink by the Dip .