Italy was ill - prepared for war , in spite of the fact that it had continuously been involved in conflict since 1935 , first with Ethiopia in 1935 -- 1936 and then in the Spanish Civil War on the side of Francisco Franco 's Nationalists . Mussolini refused to heed warnings from his minister of exchange and currency , Felice Guarneri , who said that Italy 's actions in Ethiopia and Spain meant that Italy was on the verge of bankruptcy . By 1939 military expenditures by Britain and France far exceeded what Italy could afford . As a result of Italy 's economic difficulties its soldiers were poorly paid , often being poorly equipped and poorly supplied , and animosity arose between soldiers and class - conscious officers ; these contributed to low morale amongst Italian soldiers . Military planning was deficient , as the Italian government had not decided on which theatre would be the most important . Power over the military was overcentralized to Mussolini 's direct control ; he personally undertook to direct the ministry of war , the navy , and the air force . The navy did not have any aircraft carriers to provide air cover for amphibious assaults in the Mediterranean , as the Fascist regime believed that the air bases on the Italian Peninsula would be able to do this task . Italy 's army had outmoded artillery and the armoured units used outdated formations not suited to modern warfare . Diversion of funds to the air force and navy to prepare for overseas operations meant less money was available for the army ; the standard rifle was a design that dated back to 1891 . The Fascist government failed to learn from mistakes made in Ethiopia and Spain ; it ignored the implications of the Italian Fascist volunteer soldiers being routed at the Battle of Guadalajara in the Spanish Civil War . Military exercises by the army in the Po Valley in August 1939 disappointed onlookers , including King Victor Emmanuel III . Mussolini who was angered by Italy 's military unpreparedness , dismissed Alberto Pariani as Chief of Staff of the Italian military in 1939 .