No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) 11 `` The Man Who Would Be Vogue '' Ryan Murphy Tom Rob Smith January 17 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 17 ) 3WAX01 2.22 On the morning of July 15 , 1997 , fashion designer Gianni Versace is shot and killed outside his Miami Beach mansion by wanted spree killer Andrew Cunanan . Seven years earlier , Cunanan meets Versace at a gay nightclub in San Francisco and tells his roommates about the encounter the following morning , albeit with most of the details fabricated . Cunanan later attends a performance of Capriccio as Versace 's guest and exchanges origin stories with him after the performance . In the present , Cunanan flees the scene , evading Versace 's partner Antonio D'Amico . Versace , meanwhile , is rushed to the hospital and pronounced dead . As local police start to collaborate with the federal authorities , Versace 's sister Donatella and brother Santo plan the future of their brother 's business empire while Cunanan purchases newspapers covering Versace 's death with a remorseless expression . 12 `` Manhunt '' Nelson Cragg Tom Rob Smith January 24 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 24 ) 3WAX02 1.42 In March 1994 , Versace learns that he is HIV positive and Donatella immediately blames Antonio for the illness . Three years later , Cunanan arrives in Miami after fleeing from South Carolina and moves into a motel under an assumed identity . He juggles working as a prostitute , giving his earnings to his homosexual neighbor Ronnie , and feeding his obsession with Versace . Versace , meanwhile , juggles dealing with creative block and reeling from Antonio 's proposal of a wedding . While at a nightclub one evening , Cunanan surprises Versace and Antonio and attempts to follow them only to lose them in the crowd . 13 `` A Random Killing '' Gwyneth Horder - Payton Tom Rob Smith January 31 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 31 ) 3WAX03 1.26 In May 1997 , Chicago real estate developer Lee Miglin is found dead in his garage by his wife Marilyn . One week earlier , Miglin invites Cunanan , whom he knows as a gay escort , over to his house after Marilyn leaves Chicago to promote her perfume brand . Cunanan proceeds to brutally torture and kill Miglin before stealing his Lexus . In the present , detectives assigned to the case discover gay pornographic magazines surrounding Miglin 's dead body . Marilyn insists that the killer owns the magazines and that her husband 's murder was nothing more than a random killing . The authorities later use the car 's phone in an attempt to track Cunanan , who learns about their plan after it is leaked to the media . He then abandons Miglin 's Lexus in Pennsville , New Jersey before gunning down caretaker William Reese and stealing his red pick - up truck . Marilyn , meanwhile , deals with her grief as she continues to promote her perfume . 14 `` House by the Lake '' Daniel Minahan Tom Rob Smith February 7 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 07 ) 3WAX04 0.98 In April 1997 , Cunanan lures former acquaintance Jeff Trail to the Minneapolis loft - apartment of his former lover , David Madson , and bludgeons him to death with a claw hammer . After forcing Madson to remain complicit , Cunanan decides to flee to Mexico when one of Madson 's co-workers visits him . The Minneapolis Police Department , meanwhile , discovers Trail 's corpse and suspect Madson to be the killer . They proceed to question Madson 's parents , who firmly believe that their son is innocent . When Madson confronts Cunanan about his lies , Cunanan realizes that he has lost his hold on his lover and shoots Madson near a lake outside Rush City . 15 5 `` Do n't Ask Do n't Tell '' Daniel Minahan Tom Rob Smith February 14 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 14 ) 3WAX05 0.91 In June 1995 , Versace ignores Donatella 's disapproval and makes his sexuality public in an interview . In November 1995 , U.S. Navy lieutenant Jeff Trail is suspected as a homosexual after saving a fellow veteran from being assaulted in San Diego . Following an unsuccessful suicide attempt , Trail goes to a gay bar and meets Cunanan . Trail later agrees to do an interview about homophobia in the military , during which he `` makes the decision '' to leave the Navy . Two years later , Cunanan runs into Trail and David Madson in Minneapolis . Both men , however , try to avoid him , with Trail staying at his sister 's house and Madson stating he has moved on . Abandoned and angry , Cunanan resolves to murder Trail . 16 6 `` Descent '' Gwyneth Horder - Payton Tom Rob Smith February 28 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 28 ) 3WAX07 1.10 In 1996 , Cunanan lives in La Jolla , California with middle - aged businessman Norman Blachford , who handles his finances as part of their arranged relationship . During his twenty - seventh birthday party , Cunanan tries to impress David Madson by fabricating details about his life and boasting that everyone loves him . After an attempt to ask Blachford for more extravagant demands results in him being kicked out of their house , Cunanan spends thousands of dollars in an attempt to win Madson over only for Madson to cut all ties with him . Cunanan then turns to drugs and outs Jeff Trail to his father in a postcard , causing Trail to threaten him before moving to Minneapolis . Following a severe , drug - fueled bout of depression , Cunanan reunites with his mother Mary Ann and tells her he is going to Minneapolis . 17 7 `` Ascent '' Gwyneth Horder - Payton Tom Rob Smith March 7 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 07 ) 3WAX06 0.92 In 1992 , Versace pressures Donatella into taking over the company after his death . Following a failed attempt to collaborate on a dress for the Vogue anniversary gala , Versace is diagnosed with ear cancer and travels to Miami to recover , forcing Donatella to take the reins . That same year , Cunanan , who is living with Mary Ann , starts working as a gay escort for older men . He develops a relationship with architect Lincoln Aston , a close friend of Norman Blachford , only for Aston to break up with him after discovering he and David Madson spent the night together . Cunanan 's attempt to reconcile with Aston ends with him witnessing Aston 's brutal murder . Cunanan then moves out of his mother 's apartment following an argument and uses Aston 's death to develop a relationship with Blachford , who lets him move into his house . 18 8 `` Creator / Destroyer '' Matt Bomer Tom Rob Smith and Maggie Cohn March 14 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 14 ) 3WAX08 1.00 In 1957 Italy , a young Versace starts designing clothes under tutelage from his dressmaker mother . In 1980 , a young Cunanan receives preferential treatment from his stockbroker father Modesto , who abuses his mother and siblings . Seven years later , Cunanan juggles attending private school and secretly dating older men . Modesto , meanwhile , flees to Manila after being fired for embezzling from elderly clients and learning that he is wanted by the FBI , leaving his family penniless . Cunanan tracks him down and confronts him over the charges only to be rejected . Upon returning to the United States , Cunanan applies for a job at a pharmacy , where he tells the manager that Modesto owns pineapple plantations . 19 9 `` Alone '' Daniel Minahan Tom Rob Smith March 21 , 2018 ( 2018 - 03 - 21 ) 3WAX09 1.20 On the evening of July 15 , 1997 , Cunanan hides in a Miami Beach houseboat in an attempt to evade both local and federal authorities . Over the course of the next two days , Cunanan attempts to leave the island city only to continue hiding due to the strong police presence . As the authorities interrogate Mary Ann and Ronnie , Marilyn grapples with the fact that he has gone unpunished . At the same time , Cunanan 's friend Elizabeth Cote appeals to him in a television interview , David Madson 's father insists his son is a victim , and Modesto uses Cunanan 's story in an attempt to get attention . On July 22 , 1997 , as Versace is buried in his family vault near Lake Como , Italy , Donatella tells Antonio he can not reside in the house that he was promised . The next morning , the authorities corner Cunanan only for him to shoot himself in the mouth . Cunanan is later buried in a public mausoleum while Donatella prepares to meet with Versace 's lawyers and Antonio attempts suicide .