Grisha Yeager ( グリシャ ・ イェーガー , Gurisha Yēgā , alt . `` Grisha Jaeger '' ) Eren 's father and Mikasa 's guardian . He is a renowned medical doctor who was well respected in the District of Shiganshina after he saved the village from a mysterious viral epidemic by developing vaccines . He also provides a medical house call service to the people of Shiganshina and to various towns in addition to having a network of contacts within the Corps of the Shiganshina district . Though Eren and the other believed he went into hiding after the fall of Wall Maria , they would later learn that Grisha was more than he appeared . In reality , Grisha was originally a second - class citizen of Marley and member of the Eldian Revivalists who intended to reach the island nation of Paradis to obtain the Coordinate . But he and his first wife Dina were exposed by their son Zeke , punished to be turned into Titans and left to wander on Paradis . But Grisha ended up becoming a Titan Shifter after being saved by Eren Kruger , making a new life for himself in Shiganshina . During the fall of Wall Maria , Grisha made his move to claim the Coordinate from the Reiss Family and wiped most of them out . Grisha later turns Eren into an Original Titan so he can have his son eat him and become a Titan Shifter himself . Before his death , Grisha tells Eren that he hid a secret he called the `` truth '' , revealed to be evidence of humanity thriving beyond Paradis , in the basement of their family home . His memories of the event having been fuzzy at the time , Eren eventually learns the truth of his father 's final actions and feels betrayed while realizing that the `` truth '' is connected to the Coordinate power . While heading to the Orvud District of Wall Rose , Historia comes up with her own conclusion that Grisha had a more logical reason for killing her sister and giving Eren the Coordinate powers , upon realizing what Rod had in mind . When Eren and his group reach the basement , they learn the truth that humanity is not as endangered as they believed along with a photo of Grisha and his first family . Grisha is voiced by Hiroshi Tsuchida in the anime . In the English dub , his name is spelled Grisha Jaeger , and he is voiced by Chris Hury .