Bob Denver is Gilligan , the inept , accident - prone First Mate ( affectionately known as `` Little Buddy '' by `` the Skipper '' ) of the SS Minnow . Denver was not the first choice to play Gilligan ; actor Jerry Van Dyke was offered the role , but he turned it down , believing that the show would never be successful . He chose instead to play the lead in My Mother the Car , which premiered the following year and was cancelled after one season . The producers looked to Bob Denver , the actor who had played Maynard G. Krebs , the goofy but lovable beatnik in The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis . None of the show 's episodes ever specified Gilligan 's full name or clearly indicated whether `` Gilligan '' was the character 's first name or his last . In the DVD collection , Sherwood Schwartz states that he preferred the full name of `` Willy Gilligan '' for the character . Denver , on various television / radio interviews ( The Pat Sajak Show ; KDKA radio ) , said that `` Gil Egan '' was his choice . The actor reasoned that because everyone yelled at the first mate , it ran together as `` Gilligan . '' In the unaired pilot episode , whether Lovey Howell refers to Gilligan as `` Stewart '' or steward is unclear . On Rescue from Gilligan 's Island , the writers artfully dodged Gilligan 's full name when the other names are announced . Little is revealed about Gilligan 's past , except his occasional reference to best friend Skinny Mulligan and a one - time reference to his older brother . Alan Hale Jr. is The Skipper / Captain Jonas Grumby , the captain of the S.S. Minnow . Alan Hale Jr. was a longtime actor in B - Westerns and the look - alike son of Alan Hale Sr. , a legendary movie character actor . Hale so loved his role that , long after the show went off the air , he still appeared in character in his Los Angeles restaurant , Alan Hale 's Lobster Barrel . Although the Skipper was a father figure to Gilligan , Hale was only 14 years older than Denver . Gilligan pushed the Skipper out of the way of a loose depth charge when they were both serving in the United States Navy . Skipper is a World War II veteran , and served in the Seventh Fleet . In one episode , he describes his participation in the Battle of Guadalcanal . In the episode `` They 're Off and Running '' ( season 1 episode 28 ) , Ginger is reading from a horoscope magazine and asks the Skipper his birthday , to which he responds , `` May 5th . '' In moments of exasperation , the Skipper would swat Gilligan on the head with his cap . Just as often , the Skipper endearingly called Gilligan `` Little Buddy '' . While everybody else called him `` Skipper '' , the Howells usually called him `` Captain '' . In addition , Hale wore his Skipper outfit when four other Gilligan 's Island cast members and he appeared on a few celebrity Family Feud shows . Jim Backus is Thurston Howell III , the millionaire . Backus was already a well - known character actor when he took the part . The origin of the super-rich Howell character dates back to 1949 radio when Backus portrayed `` Hubert Updike III '' on The Alan Young Show . Also , in the inaugural 1962 -- 1963 season ( episode 31 ) of The Beverly Hillbillies , Backus basically plays the same character , this time as the eccentric millionaire Martin von Ransohoff . In the classic 1963 comedy It 's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World , Backus played another Howell - like character , Tyler Fitzgerald , a boozy and rich airplane owner who briefly gets caught up in the race for the stolen money . Backus was perhaps best known as the voice of cartoon character Mr. Magoo . He reused some of the voice inflections and mannerisms of Magoo in the Howell role . He was well known for his ad - libs on the set . The character Howell was a Harvard graduate , a Republican , and a multibillionaire until his losses in the Great Depression left him a mere multimillionaire . Natalie Schafer is `` Lovey '' Wentworth Howell , Thurston 's wife , whom he affectionately called `` Lovey '' . Schafer had it written into her contract that no close - ups would be made of her , but after a while in the series it was forgotten . Schafer was 63 when the pilot was shot , although reportedly no one on the set or in the cast knew her real age and she refused to divulge it . Originally , she only accepted the role because the pilot was filmed on location in Hawaii . She looked at the job as nothing more than a free vacation , as she was convinced that a show this silly would `` never go '' . Tina Louise is Ginger Grant , the movie star . Louise clashed with producer Sherwood Schwartz because she believed that she was hired as the central character . Her character was originally written as a hard - nosed , sharp - tongued temptress , but Louise argued that this portrayal was too harsh and refused to play it as written . A compromise was reached ; Louise agreed to play her as a Marilyn Monroe / Jayne Mansfield type . Louise continued to clash with producers over her role and was the only cast member who refused to return for any of the post-series TV movies , saying that the role had killed her career as a serious actress . She did , however , appear in a reunion of the cast on a late - night television talk show in 1988 and on an episode of Roseanne in 1995 when the Roseanne cast re-enacted Gilligan 's Island . In the first season , Ginger often wore gowns that looked as if they were tailored from Minnow tarpaulins or similar substitute cloth ( some had the name of the vessel stenciled on them ) . In the pilot episode , the character of Ginger , no last name , ( then a secretary ) was played by actress Kit Smythe . Russell Johnson is Professor Roy Hinkley , Ph. D. Actor John Gabriel was originally cast , but the network thought he looked too young to have all the degrees attributed to the Professor . Actually , `` the Professor '' was in fact a high school science teacher , not a university professor . In the first episode , the radio announcer describes him as a research scientist and well known scoutmaster . Johnson , who served as a bombardier in the Pacific during World War II , stated that he had some difficulty remembering his more technically oriented lines . Originally , he was not interested in the role , and was waiting for a TV show of his own , but his agent talked him into auditioning . He had done previous movies like It Came from Outer Space , This Island Earth , and a classic western where he shot Ronald Reagan in the shoulder . Johnson 's role in the series was spoofed in a Bloom County comic strip for the Professor 's technical expertise being unable to get the castaways off the island . This odd contradiction was played up in `` Weird Al '' Yankovic 's parody song , `` Isle Thing '' , when the Professor , who is brilliant enough to `` make a nuclear reactor from a couple of coconuts '' can not `` build a lousy raft '' . Dawn Wells is Mary Ann Summers . Wells was a former Miss Nevada when she auditioned for the role . Her competition included Raquel Welch and Pat Priest . The pilot episode had a different character ( `` Bunny '' ) played by actress Nancy McCarthy . After it was shot , the network decided to recast the roles of the Professor and the two young women . Mary Ann became a simple farm girl from Winfield , Kansas . In 1993 , Wells published Mary Ann 's Gilligan 's Island Cookbook with co-writers Ken Beck and Jim Clark , including a foreword by Bob Denver . In February 2007 , she starred as Lovey Howell in Gilligan 's Island : The Musical , a musical stage adaptation of the TV show . Charles Maxwell was the uncredited voice of the `` Radio Announcer '' ( 1964 -- 1965 ) . The castaways listened to his plot - advancing radio news bulletins in many episodes and usually with perfect timing to tune in at the exact moment the news they needed to hear was being broadcast . Maxwell often paused between sentences , allowing the characters to react to his news and sometimes even responding to their comments .