No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) 19 `` A Father 's Advice '' Ken Olin Dan Fogelman September 26 , 2017 ( 2017 - 09 - 26 ) 2AZC01 12.94 On the Big Three 's 37th birthday , Randall wants to adopt a baby , but Beth convinces him they can honor William 's legacy by adopting an older child . Kate auditions as a band 's lead singer after initially leaving , because all the other women auditioning are thin . She is rejected because of her inexperience , not her weight ; Kate is confident she can work her way up . Toby tells Kevin that he , not Kevin , needs to be Kate 's `` person . '' Kevin explains that Kate informed him of their father 's death , and being Kate 's brother is the only thing he is really good at . In the past , Rebecca takes the Big Three to a movie after her argument with Jack . Rebecca urges Jack to come home ; Jack admits his drinking is out of control . Later , the family house has burned and Rebecca , in the car with Jack 's possessions in a bag , screams and cries . 20 `` A Manny - Splendored Thing '' John Fortenberry Dan Fogelman & Bekah Brunstetter October 3 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 03 ) 2AZC02 11.06 Kevin is invited back for the 100th `` The Manny '' episode . The producers try to embarrass him for how he left the show , but Sophie helps him do it anyway . Randall , Beth , their girls , Rebecca , and Miguel travel across the country to see the live episode . Randall and Beth take a walk during the taping to discuss Randall 's worries about fostering an older child who could have major issues . Also during the taping , Kate gets a call for her first gig ; however , she does not want her mother to criticize her performance , so Kate asks both Rebecca and Toby not to follow her , but they do anyway . Later , Kate confronts Rebecca about how she has always treated her . Rebecca seeks support from Toby , but he clearly sides with Kate , which wins Rebecca 's approval . After the episode taping , Beth learns from Kevin that Randall only risked failure once : in asking her out . Beth reassures Randall they can go through with their plan . In flashbacks , Jack confesses to teenage Kate that he has an alcoholism problem . Jack ( when on the wagon before ) vented his anger on a punching bag ; this time , he lets Rebecca take him to an AA meeting . 21 `` Déjà Vu '' John Requa & Glenn Ficarra Isaac Aptaker & Elizabeth Berger October 10 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 10 ) 2AZC03 11.02 On Kevin 's movie set , Kate -- excited that Sylvester Stallone is his co-star -- bonds with `` Sly '' and tells him what his films meant to her father , and about his death . After talking with Stallone , Kevin 's memories of his dad surface , affecting his performance in a scene . Randall learns that a young girl , Deja , is being brought to his home . Later , when Deja yells at Beth for `` stealing '' her mom 's cigarettes , Randall defends his wife , and Deja shrinks to defend herself from apparent aggression . Randall talks to Deja about the joy he found in having Jack and Rebecca , as well as William . Kevin takes pain medication after injuring his knee -- his old football injury -- from a scene explosion during filming . In flashbacks , when the kids are teenagers , Jack talks about his efforts to rehabilitate from alcoholism ; Randall tries to find his birth parents through an ad , and is comforted by Kate and Kevin after a woman claims to be his birth mother for his family 's money . 22 `` Still There '' Ken Olin Vera Herbert October 17 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 17 ) 2AZC04 10.65 Randall takes his daughters and Deja bowling , which does not go as expected . Beth offers to help Deja take care of her hair , and the two bond . Randall admits to Deja that he has had problems with nervous breakdowns and has taken up running to deal with his anxiety ; he invites her to come with him . Kevin undergoes surgery on his injured knee , and continues to overuse his pain medication . Kate visits a gynaecologist for an ultrasound , revealing that she is pregnant . In flashbacks , Kate and Kevin contract the chicken pox , and their doctor urges Randall to do his best to catch them as well so it would not occur later for him . Rebecca 's mother pops in intent on staying for a while , and her overbearing attitude and the fact that she treats Randall differently than Kate and Kevin leads to Rebecca confronting her about it all and calling her a racist , which Randall overhears . Rebecca 's mother takes her words to heart and reaches out to Randall , recognizing for the first time how special he is . 23 5 `` Brothers '' John Requa & Glenn Ficarra Tyler Bensinger October 24 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 24 ) 2AZC05 10.60 Kate and Toby share news of her pregnancy . Kevin , set to be auctioned off by Sophie for a large - scale charity event she is hosting , gets drunk while trying to get a pain medication prescription ; he misses the auction , embarrassing Sophie . Randall earns Deja 's trust . In the past , when Jack takes 10 - year - old Kevin and Randall camping , Rebecca learns that Jack 's father is dying . She calls Jack , but he had issues with his father , and he is trying to have Kevin get along with Randall , so Jack says that he will not return . Rebecca reassures Jack 's father ( who sees his granddaughter , Kate ) that Jack is a great father and husband . Kevin finds a notebook where Randall wrote notes of how to keep peace between them , motivating him to be nice to Randall . Later , Jack looks at a picture of him and his brother in the army . During Jack 's childhood , he and his never - before - seen brother await their father 's return to the car as he gets drunk at a bar . 24 6 `` The 20 's '' Regina King Don Roos October 31 , 2017 ( 2017 - 10 - 31 ) 2AZC06 8.43 In flashbacks , with the 10 - year - old Big Three , Rebecca takes Randall trick - or - treating , while Jack takes Kate and Kevin to a haunted house . Randall learns about Kyle 's death from the neighbors ; Rebecca then tells him the facts of his adoption . In other flashbacks , with the Big Three being in their twenties , Kate finds out she is involved with a married man . Kevin , desperate for work as an actor , attempts to steal a role from his roommate and best friend . Meanwhile , Randall and Beth prepare for the arrival of their first daughter . Beth unexpectedly goes into labor after agreeing to help Rebecca get a Facebook account . With no time to get to the hospital , Randall helps Beth through a home delivery . Kate and Kevin commiserate about their deadbeat lives and decide to live together . When Rebecca posts a photo of her granddaughter on Facebook , she gets a message from Miguel , asking how she has been the last 8 years . ( Jack 's death was sometime before Miguel last saw Rebecca . ) 25 7 `` The Most Disappointed Man '' Chris Koch Kay Oyegun November 7 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 07 ) 2AZC07 9.89 Jack and Rebecca prepare to finalize Randall 's adoption when Randall is a year old . Their case worker gives a glowing recommendation , but their judge is against interracial adoption . After Rebecca 's letter about being Randall 's mother , the judge recuses himself ; the new judge grants the adoption . Concurrently , William pleads guilty to a drug charge . Although the judge is disappointed because William had a clean record , William claims to be more disappointed , due to the loss of his loved ones and son . The judge visits William in jail , offering to reduce the sentence and get him help , if he stays sober . William keeps this promise for at least 30 years , until hearing his cancer is terminal . As he is about to use , Randall introduces himself as William 's biological son . In the present , Randall takes Deja to visit her mother Shauna in prison , but Shauna declines the visit . Randall later talks to Shauna , who intends to take Deja back after her release . He lets Shauna call Deja collect . Kevin 's relationship with Sophie deteriorates as he continues abusing pain medication and alcohol . Kate and Toby announce their pregnancy to Kevin , plan to get married at city hall , but then consider a big wedding . 26 8 `` Number One '' Ken Olin K.J. Steinberg November 14 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 14 ) 2AZC08 10.05 Kevin 's addiction to pain medication and alcohol is wearing him down . He attends the Alumni Honors Ceremony at his old high school , receives the Distinguished Alum Award , but says he does not deserve it . He pretends to play football on the field , doing play - by - play commentary on his ruined opportunities . Charlotte , an alumna , invites him to her house ; when she is not looking , he searches her house for medication , and finds and steals a prescription form . He goes to a pharmacy with a fake prescription , sees police officers , notices his pendant missing , and leaves . In flashbacks , Randall starts a Harvard application , but is interested in Howard University . Kevin and his family meet a college football recruiting coach ; afterwards , Jack is angry with Kevin for his attitude ; Jack later apologizes . Kevin 's football aspirations end one game when his knee is injured . Jack comforts Kevin and gives him the pendant he received in Vietnam for protection . In the present , Kevin goes to Charlotte 's house to find the pendant , but she will not let him in . Kevin is desperate , needing help ; he goes to Randall 's house to tell him something , but Randall assumes it is about Kate losing her baby . 27 9 `` Number Two '' Ken Olin K.J. Steinberg & Shukree Hassan Tilghman November 21 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 21 ) 2AZC09 9.34 Kate miscarries . She and Toby struggle in their relationship after Kate said the miscarriage happened to her , not Toby. Kate tries to keep her singing gig , but then has to leave early . She goes to a buffet restaurant , but does not eat the food she piled on her plate . Rebecca comforts Kate , relating her struggles after baby Kyle was stillborn . Toby eventually comes through for Kate . In flashbacks , Jack and Randall leave for a college visit . Kate and Rebecca , at Kevin 's football game , are distracted when discussing the music college Kate wants to attend , as Kevin gets injured ; when they notice , Rebecca has Kate page Jack . 28 10 `` Number Three '' Ken Olin Shukree Hassan Tilghman November 28 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 28 ) 2AZC10 10.94 Deja 's mother Shauna appears unannounced at Randall 's home after the charges against her have been dropped . Deja convinces her to leave and wait for them to be reunited via official channels . Randall and Beth are opposed to Shauna resuming custody of Deja , and plan to fight it , but eventually relent . In flashbacks , Jack takes teenage Randall to Howard University in DC ; Jack takes the official tour while Randall is shown around by a friend . Jack then shows Randall the Vietnam Veterans Memorial , and talks about being drafted and how the war affected him . In more recent times , William tells adult Randall about the two times he saw Randall 's mother , how he followed Rebecca to her home , but ultimately decided not to see Randall . In the present , Randall learns of Kate 's miscarriage . Randall and Beth plan to try fostering again after a while . Kevin appears at Randall 's house , and Randall notices Kevin drinking vodka early in the day . Later , Kevin speeds down the road , unaware at first that Tess has hidden in the back seat . Kevin is pulled over and arrested for DUI , and Randall and Beth are angry at Kevin for endangering Tess . 29 11 `` The Fifth Wheel '' Chris Koch Vera Herbert January 9 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 09 ) 2AZC11 9.65 Toby finds junk - food trash . Randall and Beth check on Tess ; she said she was sad when Deja went home . The family visits Kevin at rehab ; Barbara , the facilitator , wants only immediate family at Kevin 's first session . Kevin apologizes to the family , but Barbara has him discuss family issues . Kevin says they are a family of addicts . Kevin felt like an outcast ( `` fifth wheel '' ) : Kate had Jack 's support ; Rebecca loved Randall more than Kevin . Randall scolds Kevin ; Rebecca , crying , says why Randall was easier to love . Toby , Beth , and Miguel talk at a bar about being outsiders , Miguel being the only one who knew Jack . After the session , the Big Three reconcile ; Rebecca tells Kevin why she never worried about him , but they had their moments . Kate admits to Toby about hiding junk food since miscarrying . When the kids are 10 , Jack takes the family to a cabin vacation , getting Kevin after football camp . Randall 's new glasses are missing . Rebecca notices Kate 's food obsession ; Jack has her exercise , but later takes her for ice cream . During a thunderstorm , Kevin brings Randall 's glasses to their parents ' room -- Kate and Randall are sleeping with them . He sleeps on the floor ; Rebecca joins him . 30 12 `` Clooney '' Zetna Fuentes Bekah Brunstetter January 16 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 16 ) 2AZC12 9.82 William 's stray cat `` Clooney '' wanders . After rehab , Kevin stays with Rebecca -- whom Miguel is protecting since Kevin upset her by getting arrested and criticizing her at rehab . Miguel later tells Kevin that Jack and Rebecca were a unified couple , not separate individuals ; thus , he did not love Rebecca while Jack was alive , but does now and is staying . Kate befriends Madison from support group ; they go wedding dress shopping , where Kate discovers Madison 's bulimia ; Madison later faints and calls Kate for help . Kate says losing weight as a teenager did not make her happy . Randall visits Beth at work ; she says working again would help him . Randall gets William 's box from storage , searches for a lady about whom William wrote and drew , and discovers from a picture it was Billie Holiday . Randall tells Beth he wants to buy and manage the run - down building with her . When the kids are teenagers , Jack and Rebecca take them shopping for suits and dresses for the winter formal and Jack 's job . Though the kids are almost starting college , Jack again wants to start `` Big Three Homes '' ( which he put aside to support his family ) . Randall asks a redhead out . Someone forgets smoke detector batteries . 31 13 `` That 'll Be the Day '' Uta Briesewitz Kay Oyegun & Don Roos January 23 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 23 ) 2AZC13 9.37 An elderly couple , circa 1980 , looks through their junk , including a jukebox which would play `` That 'll Be the Day '' . When the house gets a buyer , the man gives his neighbor , Jack , a crockpot . Present - day Randall and Beth buy William 's old building . Kevin helps Randall do repairs ; they soon find themselves overwhelmed -- and bugs , so the building is vacated when an exterminator is called . Since Toby looks online for a dog , Kate -- with mixed feelings -- adopts a dog . Kevin tries to make amends to Sophie ( who says goodbye ) , receives his missing pendant in the mail -- and knows he can not make amends to his dad . In flashbacks , Jack and Rebecca watch the Super Bowl alone as the teenagers are otherwise occupied -- Kevin is with Sophie , Randall is on a date -- Kate is making an audition tape ( which Jack videotapes , to Kate 's initial disapproval ) for the music college . The old crockpot 's faulty switch causes the house fire . 32 14 TBA TBA TBA February 4 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 04 ) 2AZC14 TBD 33 15 `` Across the Border '' TBA TBA February 6 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 06 ) 2AZC15 TBD