Kim Dickens as Madison Clark , a high school guidance counselor , Travis 's girlfriend , Alicia and Nick 's mother , and Chris 's quasi-stepmother . Cliff Curtis as Travis Manawa , a high school English teacher and Madison 's boyfriend , who shares custody of his son , Chris , with his ex-wife , Liza . ( seasons 1 -- 3 ) Frank Dillane as Nick Clark , Madison 's 19 - year - old son , a heroin addict who flunked out of community college . Alycia Debnam - Carey as Alicia Clark , Madison 's overachieving teenage daughter and a model student . Elizabeth Rodriguez as Liza Ortiz , a no - nonsense nursing student , Travis 's ex-wife , and Chris 's mother . ( season 1 ; guest season 2 ) Mercedes Mason as Ofelia Salazar , a hardworking professional with immigrant parents Daniel and Griselda . ( seasons 1 -- 3 ) Lorenzo James Henrie as Chris Manawa , Travis and Liza 's rebellious teenage son who resents his father for their divorce . ( seasons 1 -- 2 ) Rubén Blades as Daniel Salazar , a barber , Griselda 's husband , Ofelia 's father , and a Salvadoran former Sombra Negra member who protects his family at any cost . Colman Domingo as Victor Strand , a smart and sophisticated businessman with a mysterious past . ( season 2 -- present ; recurring season 1 ) Michelle Ang as Alex , one of the few survivors of a plane crash whom the Los Angeles group encounters in season 2 . Alex is introduced in the Fear the Walking Dead : Flight 462 web series . ( season 2 ) Danay García as Luciana Galvez , a member of the La Colonia community in Tijuana , México , who helps Nick and believes that the walkers are not a bad thing . ( season 3 -- present ; recurring season 2 ) Daniel Sharman as Troy Otto , described as having a wild temperament and suspicious of outsiders , who is charismatic with a cruel streak . ( season 3 ) Sam Underwood as Jake Otto , Troy 's older brother and Alicia 's new friend . ( season 3 ) Dayton Callie as Jeremiah Otto , Troy 's and Jake 's father and the man who has been preparing for an apocalypse throughout his life . ( season 3 ; guest season 2 ) Lisandra Tena as Lola Guerrero , a former water utility officer and leader of a community stationed at a dam located in Tijuana , who is responsible for supplying water . ( season 3 )