Original Text Modern Translation This frere bosteth that he knoweth helle , This friar boasts that he knows hell , And God it woot , that it is litel wonder ; And God knows that it is little wonder ; Freres and feendes been but lyte asonder . Friars and fiends are seldom far apart . For , pardee , ye han ofte tyme herd telle For , by God , you have ofttimes heard tell How that a frere ravyshed was to helle How a friar was taken to hell In spirit ones by a visioun ; In spirit , once by a vision ; And as an angel ladde hym up and doun , And as an angel led him up and down , To shewen hym the peynes that the were , To show him the pains that were there , In al the place saugh he nat a frere ; In all the place he saw not a friar ; Of oother folk he saugh ynowe in wo . Of other folk he saw enough in woe . Unto this angel spak the frere tho : Unto this angel spoke the friar thus : Now , sire , quod he , han freres swich a grace `` Now sir '' , said he , `` Have friars such a grace That noon of hem shal come to this place ? That none of them come to this place ? '' Yis , quod this aungel , many a millioun ! `` Yes '' , said the angel , `` many a million ! '' And unto sathanas he ladde hym doun . And unto Satan the angel led him down . -- And now hath sathanas , -- seith he , -- a tayl `` And now Satan has '' , he said , `` a tail , Brodder than of a carryk is the sayl . Broader than a galleon 's sail . Hold up thy tayl , thou sathanas ! -- quod he ; Hold up your tail , Satan ! '' said he . -- shewe forth thyn ers , and lat the frere se `` Show forth your arse , and let the friar see Where is the nest of freres in this place ! -- Where the nest of friars is in this place ! '' And er that half a furlong wey of space , And before half a furlong of space , Right so as bees out swarmen from an hyve , Just as bees swarm out from a hive , Out of the develes ers ther gonne dryve Out of the devil 's arse there were driven Twenty thousand freres on a route , Twenty thousand friars on a rout , And thurghout helle swarmed al aboute , And throughout hell swarmed all about , And comen agayn as faste as they may gon , And came again as fast as they could go , And in his ers they crepten everychon . And every one crept into his arse . He clapte his tayl agayn and lay ful stille . He shut his tail again and lay very still .