The `` play within a play '' from Act V , Scene I , Pyramus and Thisbe , was performed by the members of the British pop music group The Beatles on 28 April 1964 for a British television special , Around The Beatles . Paul McCartney appeared as Pyramus , John Lennon as Thisbe , George Harrison as Moonshine , and Ringo Starr as Lion . The performance , before a live audience , was done with great comic intent and included a number of intentional hecklers . This was broadcast in the UK on ITV on 6 May , and in the US on ABC on 15 November . The 1981 BBC Television Shakespeare production was produced by Jonathan Miller and directed by Elijah Moshinsky . It starred Helen Mirren as Titania , Peter McEnery as Oberon , Phil Daniels as Puck , Robert Lindsay as Lysander , Geoffrey Palmer as Quince and Brian Glover as Bottom . An abbreviated version of A Midsummer Night 's Dream was made into an animated short ( with the same title ) by Walt Disney Television Animation in 1999 as part of the Mouse Tales series . It was featured in a 2002 episode of Disney 's House of Mouse ( `` House of Scrooge '' , Season 3 , Episode 34 ) . The star - crossed lovers are played by Mickey Mouse ( Lysander ) , Minnie Mouse ( Hermia ) , Donald Duck ( Demetrius ) , and Daisy Duck ( Helena ) . The character based on Theseus is played by Ludwig Von Drake , and the character based on Egeus by Scrooge McDuck . Goofy appears as an accident - prone Puck . The story ends with the revelation that it was a dream experienced by Mickey Mouse while sleeping at a picnic hosted by Minnie . In 2005 ShakespeaRe - Told , the BBC TV series , aired an updated of the play . It was written by Peter Bowker . The cast includes Johnny Vegas as Bottom , Dean Lennox Kelly as Puck , Bill Paterson as Theo ( a conflation of Theseus and Egeus ) , and Imelda Staunton as his wife Polly ( Hippolyta ) . Lennie James plays Oberon and Sharon Small is Titania . Zoe Tapper and Michelle Bonnard play Hermia and Helena . BBC1 's 2016 production was a 90 - minute filmic adaptation by Russell T Davies directed by David Kerr starring Matt Lucas as Bottom , Maxine Peake as Titania , and with a diverse cast including Nonso Anozie as Oberon , Prisca Bakare as Hermia and Hiran Abeysekera as Puck .