Version 1507 , the original version of Windows 10 , codenamed Threshold 1 and released in July 2015 . Kernel version number : 10.0. 10240 . Version 1511 , announced as the November Update and codenamed Threshold 2 . It was released in November 2015 . This update added many visual tweaks , such as more consistent context menus and the ability to change the color of window titlebars . Windows 10 can now be activated with a product key for Windows 7 and later , thus simplifying the activation process and essentially making Windows 10 free for anyone who has Windows 7 or later , even after the free upgrade period ended . A `` Find My Device '' feature was added , allowing users to track their devices if they lose them , similar to the Find My iPhone service that Apple offers . Controversially , the Start menu now displays `` featured apps '' . A few tweaks were added to Microsoft Edge , including tab previews and the ability to sync the browser with other devices running Windows 10 . Kernel version number : 10.0. 10586 . Version 1607 , announced as the Anniversary Update and codenamed Redstone 1 . It is the first of 4 planned updates with the `` Redstone '' codename . Its version number , 1607 , means that it was supposed to launch in July 2016 , however it was delayed until August 2016 . Tons of new features were included in the version , including more integration with Cortana , a dark theme , browser extension support for Microsoft Edge , click - to - play Flash by default , tab pinning , web notifications , swipe navigation in Edge , and the ability for Windows Hello to use a fingerprint sensor to sign into apps and websites , similar to Touch ID on the iPhone . Also added was Windows Ink , which improves digital inking in many apps , and the Windows Ink Workspace which lists pen - compatible apps , as well as quick shortcuts to a sticky notes app and a sketchpad . Microsoft , through their partnership with Canonical , integrated a full Ubuntu bash shell via the Windows Subsystem for Linux . Notable tweaks in this version of Windows 10 include the removal of the controversial password - sharing feature of Microsoft 's Wi - Fi Sense service , a slightly redesigned Start menu , Tablet Mode working more like Windows 8 , overhauled emoji , improvements to the lock screen , calendar integration in the taskbar , and the Blue Screen of Death now showing a QR code which users can scan to quickly find out what caused the error . This version of Windows 10 's kernel version is 10.0. 14393 . Version 1703 , announced as the Creators Update and codenamed Redstone 2 . Planned features for this update include a new Paint 3D application , which allows users to create and modify 3D models , integration with Microsoft 's HoloLens and other `` mixed - reality '' headsets produced by other manufacturers , Windows MyPeople , which allows users to manage contacts , Xbox game broadcasting , support for newly developed APIs such as WDDM 2.2 , Dolby Atmos support , improvements to the Settings app , and more Edge and Cortana improvements . This version will also include tweaks to system apps , such as an address bar in the Registry Editor , Windows PowerShell being the default command line interface instead of the Command Prompt and the Windows Subsystem for Linux being upgraded to support Ubuntu 16.04 . This version of Windows 10 was released on 11 April 2017 as a free update .