The rivalry has extended to the players as well : Wayne Rooney , a product of Liverpool 's city rivals Everton who played for United from 2004 to 2017 , described how he grew up hating the Reds ( Liverpool ) , while Liverpool 's Steven Gerrard took a film crew on tour of his home where he showed off a collection of football shirts he had swapped with opposing players as part of the after match routine ; he pointed out that there were no Manchester United shirts in there and he would never have one of them in his house . Former Liverpool goalkeeper David James said : `` I could never say I hated any United players just for being United players ... But the rivalry became a habit , I suppose ; on England trips Liverpool lads would eat at one table , United boys at another . There was tension there and we avoided one other '' . Liverpool defender Neil Ruddock once broke both of United forward Andy Cole 's legs in a reserve match , later saying that `` I did n't meant to break both legs , I only meant to break one ... I absolutely destroyed him ... I know it 's not big and it 's not clever but it was great '' . Manchester United 's Gary Neville has been publicly vocal in the past with regards to his dislike of Liverpool . He notably drew the ire of Liverpool fans during the 2006 match at Old Trafford during which he celebrated Rio Ferdinand 's last - gasp winner by running to the stand where the away fans were seated while kissing the crest on his jersey and appearing to shout angrily towards them ; he was fined and given a two - match ban by The Football Association but has stated on multiple occasions that he has never regretted his actions . Following a fixture in which John O'Shea scored a stoppage - time winner in front of the Kop in 2007 , Neville described O'Shea's achievement as `` a lifelong dream '' for himself . Previously in a Manchester derby during the 2003 -- 04 season , Neville was sent off after attempting to headbutt Manchester City 's ex-Liverpool midfielder Steve McManaman : as Paul Scholes commented , `` It 's fair to say the pair of them never got on too well together '' . The animosity amongst players has also extended to the fans on a number of occasions , as in the case of Neville , who regularly became the subject of offensive chants from Liverpool supporters after the 2006 badge - kissing incident . In a retrospective special leading up to the January 2017 match up at Old Trafford , Neville and his fellow Monday Night Football pundit and retired Liverpool one - club man Jamie Carragher both acknowledged that it was actually not uncommon for both United and Liverpool players , particularly locally - born youth academy graduates such as Bury - born Neville and Merseyside natives Gerrard and Robbie Fowler , to celebrate in front of rival fans and that `` you just got to take it in the chin '' .