Full length The six inferior heavens of the Gods . The six inferior heavens of the gods ( Devalokas ) or `` Kamavachara heavens '' , in which the passions are still unsubdued , an integral part of Buddhist cosmology . Starting from the base they are as follows : ( 1 ) The heaven of the Four Great Kings : the Regents of the Four Quarters ( Lokapala ; Chaturmaharajika ) ; ( 2 ) The heaven of the Thirty - three gods ( Trayastrimisa ) over whom Sakra presides ; ( 3 ) The heaven over which Yama , the God of Death , reigns , where there is no change of day or night ; ( 4 ) The Tushita heaven , where the Bodhisattvas are born before they appear on earth as the saviors of mankind , and where Maitreya now resides ; ( 5 ) The heaven of the Nirmanarati , who create their own pleasures ; ( 6 ) The heaven of the Parinirmita - Vasavartin gods , who indulge in pleasures created for them by others and over whom Mara is king . Each of these six heavens or devalokas is represented by a storey of a palace , the front of which is divided by pillars into three bays , the pillars in the alternate storeys being either plain or provided with elaborate Persepolitan capitals . In the central bay there sits a god , like an Indian king , holding a thunderbolt ( vajra ) in his right hand and a flask containing nectar ( amrita ) in his left . Behind him are his women attendants holding the royal umbrella ( Muttra ) and flywhisk ( chauri ) . In the bay to his right , seated on a slightly lower seat , is his viceroy ( uparaja ) ; and to his left are the court musicians and dancers . With slight variations the same figures are repeated in each of the six heavens . Nothing , perhaps , could give a better idea of the monotony of pleasure in the Buddhist heavens than the sameness of these reiterations . The topmost panel of all , with two figures seated on a terrace and attendants behind , is treated quite differently from the Devalokas below and appears to represent the lowest of the Brahmaloka , which according to the Buddhist ideas rise above the inferior heavens .