`` Perennialism '' , an approach that is primarily concerned with nationhood but tends to see nations and ethnic communities as basically the same phenomenon , holds that the nation , as a type of social and political organisation , is of an immemorial or `` perennial '' character . Smith ( 1999 ) distinguishes two variants : `` continuous perennialism '' , which claims that particular nations have existed for very long spans of time , and `` recurrent perennialism '' , which focuses on the emergence , dissolution and reappearance of nations as a recurring aspect of human history . `` Perpetual perennialism '' holds that specific ethnic groups have existed continuously throughout history . `` Situational perennialism '' holds that nations and ethnic groups emerge , change and vanish through the course of history . This view holds that the concept of ethnicity is basically a tool used by political groups to manipulate resources such as wealth , power , territory or status in their particular groups ' interests . Accordingly , ethnicity emerges when it is relevant as means of furthering emergent collective interests and changes according to political changes in the society . Examples of a perennialist interpretation of ethnicity are also found in Barth , and Seidner who see ethnicity as ever - changing boundaries between groups of people established through ongoing social negotiation and interaction . `` Instrumentalist perennialism '' , while seeing ethnicity primarily as a versatile tool that identified different ethnics groups and limits through time , explains ethnicity as a mechanism of social stratification , meaning that ethnicity is the basis for a hierarchical arrangement of individuals . According to Donald Noel , a sociologist who developed a theory on the origin of ethnic stratification , ethnic stratification is a `` system of stratification wherein some relatively fixed group membership ( e.g. , race , religion , or nationality ) is utilized as a major criterion for assigning social positions '' . Ethnic stratification is one of many different types of social stratification , including stratification based on socio - economic status , race , or gender . According to Donald Noel , ethnic stratification will emerge only when specific ethnic groups are brought into contact with one another , and only when those groups are characterized by a high degree of ethnocentrism , competition , and differential power . Ethnocentrism is the tendency to look at the world primarily from the perspective of one 's own culture , and to downgrade all other groups outside one 's own culture . Some sociologists , such as Lawrence Bobo and Vincent Hutchings , say the origin of ethnic stratification lies in individual dispositions of ethnic prejudice , which relates to the theory of ethnocentrism . Continuing with Noel 's theory , some degree of differential power must be present for the emergence of ethnic stratification . In other words , an inequality of power among ethnic groups means `` they are of such unequal power that one is able to impose its will upon another '' . In addition to differential power , a degree of competition structured along ethnic lines is a prerequisite to ethnic stratification as well . The different ethnic groups must be competing for some common goal , such as power or influence , or a material interest , such as wealth or territory . Lawrence Bobo and Vincent Hutchings propose that competition is driven by self - interest and hostility , and results in inevitable stratification and conflict .