Tangram : The tangram is a dissection puzzle consisting of seven flat shapes , which are put together to form shapes . The objective of the puzzle is to form a specific shape using all seven pieces , which may not overlap . The game is reputed to have been invented in China during the Song Dynasty , and was popularized in Europe and America during the 19th century . The word tangram is likely derived from two words , the Chinese word tang , referring to the medieval Chinese Tang Dynasty , and the Greek word gramma , a synonym of `` graph '' . Tea : The tea plant is indigenous to western Yunnan ; by the mid 2nd millennium BC , tea was being consumed in Yunnan for medicinal purposes . Tea drinking was already an established custom in the daily life in this area as shown by the Contract with a Slave , written by Wang Bao in 59 BC . This written record also reveals that tea was processed and used as a drink instead of a medicinal herb , emerged no later than the 1st century BC . Early Chinese tea culture began from the time of Han Dynasty ( 202 BC -- 220 AD ) to the Southern and Northern Dynasties ( 420 -- 589 ) when tea was widely used by Chinese gentry , but only took its initial shape during the Tang Dynasty ( 618 -- 907 ) . Teapot : The teapot was invented during the Yuan Dynasty , tea preparation in previous dynasties did not utilize a teapot . In the Tang Dynasty , a cauldron was used to boil grounded tea , which was served in bowls . Song Dynasty tea was made by pouring water boiled using a kettle into a bowl with finely ground tea leaves . A brush was then used to stir the tea . The innovation of the teapot , a vessel that steeps tea leaves in boiling water , occurs during the late Yuan dynasty . Written evidence of a teapot appears in the Yuan Dynasty text , Jiyuan Conghua , which describes a teapot that the author , Cai Shizhan , bought from the scholar Sun Daoming . By the Ming Dynasty , teapots were widespread in China . Thyroid hormones to treat goiters : In 239 BC , Master Lu 's Spring and Autumn Annals stated that where water is too light , people suffer widespread baldness and goiter . It was not until the 1860 that French physician Gaspard Adolphe Chatin ( 1813 -- 1901 ) linked goiter with the lack of iodine in soil and water ; iodine was discovered in the thyroid gland in 1896 by German chemist Eugen Baumann , while thyroid extract was used to treat patients in 1890 . The Tang Dynasty ( 618 -- 907 ) physician Zhen Quan ( d . 643 AD ) , in his Old and New Tried and Tested Prescriptions , stated that the thyroid glands taken from gelded rams were used to treat patients with goiter ; the thyroid hormones could be swallowed in pill form ( the body of the pill made from crushed jujube pulp ) or as a solid thyroid gland with the fat taken off . The Pharmacopoeia of the Heavenly Husbandman asserted that iodine - rich sargassum was used to treat goiter by the 1st century BC ( Ge Hong , 284 -- 364 , also suggested using a tincture derived from sargassum seaweed in about 340 AD ) , a treatment later recorded in the West by Italian practrica Roger of Palermo in his Practica Chirurgiae of 1180 AD . Tianchi Basins : As precipitation was for important agriculture and food production , the Song Chinese mathematician and inventor Qin Jiushao developed a precipitation gauge that was widely used in 1247 during the Southern Song dynasty to gather meteorological data . Qin Jiushao later records application of rainfall measurements in the mathematical treatise Mathematical Treatise in Nine Sections . The book also discusses problems using large snow gauges made from bamboo situated in mountain passes and uplands which are speculated to be first referenced to snow measurement . Tianchi Basins were installed at provincial and district capitals and bamboo snow gauges were situated in mountain passes . The rain gauges were conical or barrel - shaped with one being installed at each provincial and district capital in China . In the treatise , Qin Jiushao also discusses how point measurements were converted to real averages . These averages were important as they postulated indicators of natural disasters such as flooding , since river flooding has always been a problem in China . Tofu : Although both popular tradition and Song - dynasty scholars like Zhu Xi ( 1130 -- 1200 AD ) credit the invention of tofu -- along with soymilk -- to Liu An ( 179 -- 122 BC ) , a Han - Dynasty King of Huainan , no mention of tofu is found in the extant Huainanzi ( compiled under Liu An ) . The earliest known mention of tofu was made in Records of the Extraordinary ( Qingyi lu 清 異 錄 ) , which reported that tofu was sold at Qingyang ( Anhui ) . The earliest explanation of how to make tofu is found in the Bencao Gangmu , written by Li Shizhen ( 1518 -- 1593 ) . According to Liu Keshun ( 1999 ) , Liu An 's process for making tofu was essentially the same as today . Toilet paper : Toilet paper was first mentioned by the official Yan Zhitui ( 531 -- 591 ) in the year 589 during the Sui Dynasty , with full evidence of continual use in subsequent dynasties . By the mid 14th century during the Yuan Dynasty ( 1271 -- 1368 ) , it was written that ten million packages of 1,000 to 10,000 sheets of toilet paper were manufactured annually in Zhejiang province alone . Traction trebuchet : The earliest type of trebuchet catapult was the traction trebuchet , developed first in China by the 5th or 4th century BC , the beginning of the Warring States period ( 403 -- 221 BC ) ; to operate the trebuchet , a team of men pulled on ropes attached to the butt of the shorter segment of a long wooden beam separated by a rotating axle fixed to a base framework , allowing the longer segment of the beam to lunge forward and use its sling to hurl a missile ; by the 9th century a hybrid of the traction and counterweight trebuchet , employing manpower and a pivoting weight , was used in the Middle East , Mediterranean Basin , and Northern Europe ; by the 12th century , the full - fledged counterweight trebuchet was developed under the Ayyubid dynasty of Islamic Syria and Egypt ( described by Mardi bin Ali al - Tarsusi ) and used in the Third Crusade ; by the 13th century , the counterweight trebuchet found its way into Song Dynasty ( 960 -- 1279 ) China via the Mongol invaders under Kublai Khan ( r . 1260 -- 1294 ) who used it in the Siege of Xiangyang ( 1267 -- 1273 ) . Tributary systems : The tributary system was the network of trade and foreign relations between China and its tributaries , which helped to shape much of East Asian affairs . Through the tribute system , which facilitated frequent economic and cultural exchange , the various dynasties of Imperial China `` deeply influenced the culture of the peripheral countries and also drew them into a China - centered , or ' sino - centric ' , international order . '' The Imperial tributary system shaped foreign policy and trade for over 2000 years of Imperial China 's economic and cultural dominance of the region , and thus played a huge role in the History of East Asia in particular . Trip hammer : The ancient Chinese used pestle and mortar to pound and decorticate grain , which was superseded by the treadle - operated tilt hammer ( employing a simple lever and fulcrum ) perhaps during the Zhou Dynasty ( 1122 -- 256 BC ) but first described in a Han Dynasty ( 202 BC -- 220 AD ) dictionary of 40 BC and soon after by Yang Xiong ( 53 BC -- 18 AD ) in his Fangyan dictionary written in 15 BC ; the next stage in this evolution of grain - pounding devices was to apply hydraulic power , which the author Huan Tan ( 43 BC -- 28 AD ) mentioned in his Xinlun of 20 AD , although he also described trip hammers powered by the labor of horses , oxen , donkeys , and mules . After Huan Tan 's book was written , numerous references to trip hammers powered by waterwheels were made in subsequent Chinese dynasties and in Medieval Europe by the 12th century . However , trip hammers were also attested by both literary ( Pliny , Natural History 18.97 ) and archaeological evidence in fairly widespread use in the Roman Empire by the 1st century AD . Tuned bells : The earliest complete set of tuned bells , sixteen in all , were found in Tomb 8 of Marquis Su of Jin at Qucun , southern Shanxi . The tomb has been dated by AMS radiocarbon techniques to 815 -- 786 BC , during the period of the Zhou Dynasty . Of the sixty - four bronze bells found in the tomb of Marquis Yi of Zeng interred by 433 BC , forty - seven of them produce two notes with minor third intervals while sixteen produce two notes with major third intervals . Tung oil : The tung oil tree originates in southern China and was cultivated there for tung oil , but the date of cultivation remains unknown . During the Song Dynasty , tung oil was used for waterproofing on ships . Tung oil is etymologically derived from the Chinese tongyou .