First release to implement WebAssembly . Added support for WebAssembly , an emerging standard that brings near - native performance to Web - based games , apps , and software libraries without the use of plugins . Added automatic captive portal detection , for easier access to Wi - Fi hotspots . When accessing the Internet via a captive portal , Firefox will alert users and open the portal login page in a new tab . Enabled multi-process Firefox for Windows users with touch screens Added user warnings for non-secure HTTP pages with logins . Firefox now displays a `` This connection is not secure '' message when users click into the username and password fields on pages that do n't use HTTPS . Implemented the Strict Secure Cookies specification which forbids insecure HTTP sites from setting cookies with the `` secure '' attribute . In some cases , this will prevent an insecure site from setting a cookie with the same name as an existing `` secure '' cookie from the same base domain . Enhanced Sync to allow users to send and open tabs from one device to another . Improved text input for third - party keyboard layouts on Windows . This will address some keyboard layouts that : have chained dead keys . input two or more characters with a non-printable key or a dead key sequence . input a character even when a dead key sequence failed to compose a character . Removed support for Netscape Plugin API ( NPAPI ) plugins other than Flash . Silverlight , Java , Acrobat and the like are no longer supported . Removed Battery Status API to reduce fingerprinting of users by trackers . Improved experience for downloads : Notification in the toolbar when a download fails . Quick access to five most recent downloads rather than three . Larger buttons for canceling and restarting downloads . Displaying ( but allowing users to override ) an `` Untrusted Connection '' error when encountering SHA - 1 certificates that chain up to a root certificate included in Mozilla 's CA Certificate Program . ( Note : Firefox continues to permit SHA - 1 certificates that chain to manually imported root certificates . ) Migrated Firefox users on Windows XP and Windows Vista operating systems to the extended support release ( ESR ) version of Firefox . When not using Direct2D on Windows , Skia is used for content rendering . Enabled CSS Grid Layout , opening up a world of new possibilities for graphic design . Redesigned Responsive Design Mode to include device selection , network throttling , and more . Improved security for screen sharing , which now shows a preview and no longer requires a whitelisted domain .