From 1999 to 2001 , issue - led storylines were introduced such as Toyah Battersby 's rape , Roy and Hayley Cropper abducting their foster child , Sarah Platt 's Internet chat room abduction and Alma Halliwell 's death from cervical cancer . Such storylines were unpopular with viewers and ratings dropped and in October 2001 , Macnaught was abruptly moved to another Granada department and Carolyn Reynolds took over . Corrie continued to struggle in the ratings , with EastEnders introducing some of its strongest stories . In 2002 , Kieran Roberts was appointed as producer and aimed to re-introduce `` gentle storylines and humour '' , after deciding that the Street should not try to compete with other soaps . In 2002 , Gail Platt married Richard Hillman ( Brian Capron ) , a financial advisor , who would go on to leave Duggie Ferguson to die , murder his ex-wife Patricia , attempt to murder his mother - in - law , Audrey Roberts , murder Maxine Peacock and attempt to murder Emily Bishop . After confessing to the murder of Maxine and his ex-wife , Hillman attempted to kill Gail , her children Sarah and David , and her granddaughter Bethany , by driving them into a canal . The storyline received wide press attention , and viewing figures peaked at 19.4 million , with Hillman dubbed a `` serial killer '' by the media . Todd Grimshaw became Corrie 's first regular homosexual character . In 2003 another gay male character was introduced , Sean Tully played by Antony Cotton . The character of Karen McDonald ( Suranne Jones ) was developed , with her fiery marriage to Steve and warring with Tracy Barlow . In 2004 , Coronation Street retconned the Baldwin family when Mike 's nephew Danny Baldwin and his wife Frankie moved to the area from Essex , with their two sons Jamie and Warren . Until this time , Mike Baldwin had been portrayed as an only child , with his father appearing in the programme between 1980 and 1982 confirming the fact . The bigamy of Peter Barlow and his addiction to alcohol , later in the decade , Maya Sharma 's revenge on former lover Devendra Alahan , Charlie Stubbs 's psychological abuse of Shelley Unwin , and the deaths of Mike Baldwin , Vera Duckworth and Fred Elliott . In 2007 , Tracy Barlow murdered Charlie Stubbs and claiming it was self - defence ; the audience during this storyline peaked at 13.3 million . At the 2007 British Soap Awards , it won Best Storyline , and Kate Ford was voted Best Actress for her portrayal . Other storylines included Leanne Battersby becoming a prostitute and the show 's first bi-sexual love triangle ( between Michelle Connor , Sonny Dhillon , and Sean Tully ) . The Connor family were central to many storylines during 2007 -- the accidental death of a Polish worker at Underworld due to overworking , Michelle 's discovery that her brothers Paul and Liam were the cause of her husband 's death , Paul 's use of an escort service , his kidnapping of Leanne and his subsequent death .