Corporal Louis LeBeau ( portrayed by Robert Clary ) -- Free French Air Force Corporal Louis LeBeau is a Master Chef who is passionate about his cooking and a notoriously patriotic Frenchman . He often generally refers to Germans in uniform and Nazis as `` pigs '' , and specifically as `` Boche '' or `` dirty Boche '' , while the other prisoners call them Krauts ( which were meant to be derogatory remarks towards World War I and World War II German soldiers ) . Schultz and Klink refer to LeBeau as `` Cockroach '' . LeBeau gets along better with the guard dogs than any other prisoner , and so is often seen using the tunnel entrance located in the kennel . Though highly claustrophobic , because of his small size he can hide in small spaces , such as the safe in Colonel Klink 's office , box crates , or a dumbwaiter . LeBeau also uses his talent as a singer to help the `` Heroes '' in several episodes . ( Clary began his career as a singer . ) As a stereotypical French lover , LeBeau tries to be romantic with a number of the women with whom he comes in contact during the series . In one first - season episode , however , he does refer to having a wife . In numerous episodes , LeBeau uses his cooking skills to get Klink out of various jams with his superiors or simply so Klink can impress guests . In exchange for LeBeau 's cooking a dinner or banquet , Hogan bargains for extra privileges ( which is usually just a ruse to gain access to Klink 's guests ) . LeBeau also bribes Schultz with food , especially his famous apple strudel . In the first two seasons ( excluding the pilot ) , LeBeau made the uniforms and suits , although this job increasingly went to Newkirk . In fact , by the fifth - season episode `` Gowns by Yvette '' , it is suggested that LeBeau can not even sew a stitch , though he claims creative responsibility for the dress Newkirk eventually sews ; but later , he once again began to sew and mend the clothing alongside Newkirk . In the show , LeBeau suffers from hemophobia and is seldom seen without his scarf . He also may have been the first POW at Stalag 13 . In one episode , it was shown that he could n't remember his serial number , although it might have been an act . The farthest he got was `` H12497 '' . Robert Clary is a French Jew who was in the Nazi concentration camps Ottmuth and Buchenwald and still has his serial number tattooed on his arm . Clary is one of two surviving cast members of Hogan 's Heroes ( the other being Kenneth Washington ) .