On February 3 , 2013 , IWGP Junior Heavyweight Champion Prince Devitt pinned IWGP Heavyweight Champion Hiroshi Tanahashi in a tag team match , where he and Karl Anderson faced Tanahashi and Devitt 's longtime Apollo 55 tag team partner Ryusuke Taguchi . This led to a match between Devitt and Tanahashi on March 3 at NJPW 's 41st anniversary event . Though neither man 's title was on the line in the match , Tanahashi vowed to relinquish the IWGP Heavyweight Championship in case Devitt was victorious . After defeating Devitt , Tanahashi went to help his opponent up , but was pushed away by the disappointed Junior Heavyweight Champion . The following weeks , Devitt began portraying a more cocky and villainous persona , regularly disrespecting both partners and opponents , with the exception of Ryusuke Taguchi , whom he tried to get to go along with his new attitude . However , this changed on April 7 at the Invasion Attack pay - per - view , when Devitt turned on Taguchi , after the two had failed to recapture the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship from the Time Splitters ( Alex Shelley and Kushida ) . During the attack , Devitt was helped by the returning King Fale , who attacked not only Taguchi , but also Shelley , Kushida and Captain New Japan , whom Devitt then proceeded to unmask . Following the attack , Devitt took a microphone , introduced Fale as his new `` bouncer '' , giving him the new name `` The Underboss '' Bad Luck Fale and dubbed himself the `` Real Rock ' n ' Rolla '' . At the following pay - per - view , Wrestling Dontaku 2013 on May 3 , Devitt and Fale teamed up for the first time to defeat Taguchi and Captain New Japan in a tag team match . Later in the event , Devitt and Fale entered the ring to attack the now former IWGP Heavyweight Champion Hiroshi Tanahashi , after he had defeated Karl Anderson in a singles match . Anderson first went to stop Devitt and Fale , but then turned on Tanahashi , hitting him with the Gun Stun . As the three men continued their attack on Tanahashi , they were also joined by Tama Tonga , with whom Anderson had formed a partnership during the past two weeks . In a post-match interview , the four men announced the formation of an all - gaijin stable named `` Bullet Club '' .