We should have a Citation for JFK being Catholic , and for what is stated in the Nixon section . We should have citations for all of these statements . You may not have intended that the details be arugments to support the statements that a given President has a given religious affiliation / outlook , but that is definitely how they read . If this is supposed to be a simple LIST ... then we should not have any of the extranious details - just the name , denomination and a citation to a source . The details would be irrelevant . No , it is not your personal responsibility alone to add citations ... when I say ' you ' I mean anyone who wants to add material to this page and not you personally . However , the onus of adding citations is the responsibility of whoever wants to add a piece of material to an article . As a major contributer to this article you ( personally ) should be a major contributer to adding citations . Please remember that any material without citation can be removed ( however , I find it is less contentious and common courtesy to request the citation and give people a reasonable amount of time to find it before removing ) . As to Wilson ... adding the details about Wilson 's father and Princeton 's afflilation with the Presbyterian Church reads like a supporting argument for saying he was a Presbyterian ... that is SYNT without attibution to a reliable secondary source who made the connection between these facts and Wilson 's affiliation . As to Pierce ... same thing ... the way the details are presented reads as if they are supporting facts to advance the statement that he is an Episcopalian . I agree that each detail is very well sourced ... but what is needed is a source that ties them together . The argument that the details in this article are better cited than the details in the article on Pierce is spurious ... it just means that the Pierce article probably needs citation work . In short , we have two issues to deal with ... first is the general lack of citations . The second is that , the way this article is structured , the details end up ( intentionally or not ) forming SYNT , and thus need a connecting citation . The first issue is easy to deal with ... we can simply find citations ( I will help look for them ) . The second will take more thought . Blueboar 13 : 20 , 22 April 2007 ( UTC )