Towards the end of 2013 , around the launch of Sony 's next video game device , the home video game console the PlayStation 4 , Sony began making comments in regards to the change in focus with the Vita . Yoshida stated that Sony would be releasing fewer first party games for the platform . Sony Computer Entertainment 's Product Planning & Platform Software Innovation Director Don Mesa stated that the `` economics simply do n't work with the traditional process '' . Sony addressed the `` economics of Vita game development '' issue with beginning on focusing on the fact that almost all PlayStation 4 games could be streamed and played through a Vita through remote play . Sony attempted to attach the device to the PS4 due to its extreme popularity ; it took only a few weeks for the sales to surpass the sales of the Vita over the course of almost two years . In July 2014 , Yoshida stated that the company would focus on it less as a dedicated handheld video game console , and more on its combination of uses , stating `` it 's not about individual Vita games any more . It 's more about how Vita can have multiple uses -- with PS4 Remote Play , PS3 games with PS Now , and the dedicated games . The whole ecosystem with PS4 at the center , the Vita 's a part of that . '' Sony later announced that the Vita will have PlayStation VR integration in the form of a second screen as well . Open beta trials for PlayStation Now functionality on the PS Vita began on October 14 , 2014 in North America . The PlayStation TV , released across late 2013 and 2014 , also aimed to expand the system 's userbase by allowing for Vita games to be played on a television like a home console , though the device was discontinued in the West by the end of 2015 , and did not fare well in Japan 's handheld - focused region either . In November 2014 , SCEA president Shawn Layden suggested that the new approach was working on hardware level , stating that Vita sales had increased since the implementation of PS4 Remote Play , though he and another Sony representative did not give specific figures . Sony continued to make games for the device , though in smaller number than in past . The last major Sony - developed title , Freedom Wars , still found success , selling over 188,000 copies in its first week of release in Japan . The debut was the highest Sony game debut for the system , and the second highest , only to Namco Bandai 's late 2013 release of God Eater 2 on the platform .