No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date U.S. viewers ( millions ) 9 `` Our Raison d'Etre '' Alex Hall David Simon & George Pelecanos September 9 , 2018 ( 2018 - 09 - 09 ) 0.636 It is now 1977 . Vincent is the owner of the successful and mob - backed disco called Club 366 . Vincent and Abby are still together , and she is managing the Hi - Hat . Frankie is running Show Land , a peep show establishment with real women instead of videos . Frankie takes $10,000 from the safe and disappears , angering Vincent who tries to track him down . Frankie returns , and reveals to Vincent that he is married and used the money to buy a ring . Vincent eventually forgives Frankie and forgoes his debt , calling it a wedding present . Candy and Harvey clash over her editing techniques on their latest adult film , which he believes to be `` too artistic '' . Lori is also a porn star , and C.C. hustles the director to get more money . Darlene obtained her GED , unbeknownst to Larry . Paul is managing a gay bar , but wants to open his own establishment without the mob 's involvement . Alston is now a homicide detective and is dating a nurse . Alston is approached at a crime scene by Gene Goldman , an aide for Ed Koch who is leading the Midtown Enforcement Project . 10 `` There 's an Art to This '' Alex Hall Richard Price September 16 , 2018 ( 2018 - 09 - 16 ) 0.605 Candy is frustrated with the type of porn films they 're making and wants to make ones with better stories . Candy is introduced to Genevieve Furie by Harvey , a former porn director who gives her advice . Candy has breakfast with her son and she discusses the idea of buying a bigger apartment for them . Lori and Harvey receive nominations from the Adult Film Association of America . Lori meets with Kiki Rains , who wants to manage her and she tells Lori that C.C. will drag her down . Vince and Abby go on a trip to Coney Island . After a gay man is assaulted outside Paul 's bar , a rival mobster offers his protection to Paul , who is currently paying Rudy Pipilo for protection . Paul continues to search for a location for his new club . Alston solves his homicide case ; a young male sex worker stabbed a tourist , but Alston coaches him to say it was in self defense . Larry asks Candy if he could perform in one of her films , but she believes he wo n't be able to give up control . Bobby continues his affair with Tiffany , one of the women from the massage parlor , and has a child with her . Abby goes to a meeting held by former sex worker Ashley ( whose real name is Dorothy ) , who is now an activist helping other women . 11 `` Seven - Fifty '' Steph Green Chris Yakaitis September 23 , 2018 ( 2018 - 09 - 23 ) 0.585 Lori goes to the AFAA Awards in Los Angeles by herself after C.C. reveals he 's afraid to fly . Harvey and Candy go as well . At the awards ceremony , Lori and Harvey both win their respective awards , best supporting actress and best director . Lori makes several connections in Los Angeles , including a talent scout who encourages her to stay in Los Angeles . After returning to New York , Lori tells C.C. she 's done working the streets . C.C. smashes her trophy and tells her not to forget who she is . While in Los Angeles , Candy meets with a producer where she pitches her idea for a Little Red Riding Hood porn film . He becomes disinterested when Candy reveals she 's the director and wo n't be performing in it . However , he offers her $10,000 with 10 % of profits , but only if she performs oral sex on him , which she eventually does . After Frankie steals again , Rudy does n't want him to work for him anymore . Frankie ends up winning at poker , which nets him a laundry business . Paul gets a loan from Vincent for his new bar and without Rudy Pipilo 's involvement . More massage parlors are opening up , causing problems between the mob bosses . Rudy has one of his rival 's parlors set on fire . Leon returns to the diner , after serving a five - year prison sentence for killing Reggie . Larry and Darlene quit a porn shoot due to racism : Darlene gets paid less than white porn actors and the director wo n't hire Larry . Gene Goldman of the Koch administration presents their plan to clean - up Times Square at Alston 's precinct . Abby meets with Dorothy and others from her activist group . Dorothy uncomfortably runs into C.C. at the Hi - Hat . 12 `` What Big Ideas '' Uta Briesewitz Anya Epstein September 30 , 2018 ( 2018 - 09 - 30 ) 0.562 Candy shows Harvey her ideas for her Little Red Riding Hood film , but Harvey thinks it 's too ambitious . After having difficulty writing the script , Candy hires a writer . Shay overdoses again at the peep show and is entered into rehab . Frankie 's first day running his new dry cleaning business is overwhelming . At Lori 's porn shoot , C.C. makes suggestions to the director , including a film about the life of a pimp . Lori meets with Kiki again , who wants to manage her , but Lori is too scared to leave C.C. Larry stars in his first porn film , directed by Candy , but has trouble with the dialogue . Darlene reveals he 's illiterate , so Candy has him and the girl in the scene improvise their dialogue , which leads to a great performance from Larry . In retaliation to a prior massage parlor fire by a rival mob boss , one of Rudy 's parlors is burned down which results in the death of a 16 - year - old sex worker named Kitty . Abby blames Bobby for her death , because he 's responsible for running all of Rudy 's parlors , and he hired an underage girl . Vincent wants out of the parlor business completely . Vincent and Black Frankie witness Tommy Longo kill a rival gang member in the street , who was responsible for the fire . Dorothy finds out Kitty 's real identity , Stephanie Esposito , and tracks down her family , but her father is uninterested in identifying her body or providing a burial service . Goldman wants the parlors to be raided , but Alston tells him the parlors are warned in advance by police officers taking bribes from the mob . Abby and Vincent pay for Stephanie 's funeral , which they attend along with Dorothy and Bobby . 13 5 `` All You 'll Be Eating is Cannibals '' Zetna Fuentes Richard Price & Carl Capotorto October 7 , 2018 ( 2018 - 10 - 07 ) 0.494 C.C. hits Lori after he finds out that Kiki wants to manage her , believing Lori went behind his back . C.C. later tries to make it up to her by buying her a puppy . Larry watches Blue Collar in a movie theater and gets inspired . Larry becomes more interested in acting and begins to lose interest in pimping . Shay is released from rehab and Irene takes her in as she 's worried Shay will fall back into her heroin addiction . Candy , with help from Kiki , begins casting for her film . Disappointed with the script by the hired writer , Candy asks Jocelyn to rewrite it . Paul is over budget on his nightclub , causing a fight with his boyfriend . Instead of going home , Paul goes to an underground sex club and engages in anonymous sex . Low on cash , Candy asks Vincent if he wants to invest in her film ; he suggests she ask Frankie , who recently sold his dry cleaning business . Frankie invests $10,000 in her film and becomes a co-producer . Abby and Vincent host a clinic in their bar to help Dorothy . Big Mike and Black Frankie rob a poker game , stealing $40,000 , which impresses Tommy Longo . Lori goes to Candy 's apartment to audition for the lead role in her film . After Candy remarks about her black eye , Lori explains how bad her situation with C.C. is . Dorothy has another run - in with C.C. , where she confronts him and sarcastically thanks him for turning her into the strong woman she is . Alston informs Gene Goldman that they will be raiding the parlors again , but for real this time . Bobby 's parlor is raided and he ends up on the TV news , causing problems for his family . Abby wants Bobby banned from the Hi - Hat and she questions Vincent 's involvement with the mob . Candy begins shooting her film , Red Hot . 14 6 `` We 're All Beasts '' Susanna White Megan Abbott & Stephani DeLuca October 14 , 2018 ( 2018 - 10 - 14 ) 0.554 Candy continues filming Red Hot , shooting it guerrilla - style on the streets of New York . Lori is playing Red , and the high - maintenance male actor quits due to working conditions . Candy hires Larry in his place and he impresses with his improv dialogue and performance . Harvey is stressed when Candy spends too much money on a location and Frankie 's wife Tina , playing the grandmother -- who he hired himself -- causes delays by forgetting the dialogue in her scene . Frankie fires his wife , which sparks a fight between the two . Candy tells Frankie they need another $20,000 to finish the film . Larry pays Darlene to help read lines with him . To get money , Frankie , along with Big Mike and Black Frankie rob a shoe truck , but it only has the left shoes -- a tactic employed due to common robberies . Frankie brings Rudy to the Deuce to watch Candy film a scene ; Rudy is impressed and offers $20,000 with a 25 % return in profits . Frankie shows up to set with the money , exciting Candy and the others , but they do n't know it 's from the mob . Candy replaces Tina , now playing an aunt . Harvey and Candy watch a rough cut and he tells her , `` Jesus ... You got something here . '' Gene Goldman goes to a gay man 's bathhouse before going home to his wife . Bobby pays his fines and after his son is arrested for fighting , he puts him to work at the massage parlor , to help clean up . Abby continues to help Dorothy , where they try to negotiate with the pimps who loiter in front of an apartment complex , causing issues for the tenants . Abby brings the issues to a neighborhood council meeting . Vincent comes clean to Abby about his involvement with the mob and that his establishments are mob - backed . He tells her he 's not taking any more money from the parlors and gives her his last payout , telling her to do something good with it . Paul 's upscale club opens with Vincent and Abby in attendance . Abby gives the money to Dorothy to help a prostitute escape the streets and leave the city . 15 7 `` The Feminism Part '' Tricia Brock Will Ralston October 21 , 2018 ( 2018 - 10 - 21 ) 0.446 Vincent tells Rudy he wants out of the parlors and peep shows , but Tommy Longo makes it clear to Vincent that he ca n't quit . To clear his head , Vincent drives to Vermont and ends up helping a short - staffed bartender . Bobby 's son Joey gets involved with a girl at the parlor , but Bobby quickly breaks it up . Darlene learns she 's pregnant and gets an abortion . Candy and Harvey screen Red Hot to their mobster investors , but they are more interested in talking with Harvey alone when it comes business . They agree to put Candy front and center in the marketing , but Candy worries about her son finding out . Candy shows her son where she works , but leaves the porn part out of it . Alston and his girlfriend go on bowling date with Flanagan and his wife . Irene discovers Shay has left the apartment and learns that she is back on streets working for Rodney . Paul and his boyfriend Kenneth have an amicable breakup after realizing they 've drifted apart after being so busy with the club . Flanagan has an argument with his mistress Anita , one of girl 's from Bobby 's parlor , about him not leaving his wife for her , and he ends up killing her in a fit of rage . Abby and Dave , an activist friend of Dorothy , have sex . Anita 's body is pulled from the river and Alston is called on the case . Alston recognizes her and the watch on her wrist , which belongs to Flanagan . Alston tries to get Flanagan to turn himself in , but he commits suicide instead . Lori is told by Kiki about an exciting movie deal for her , to do three films in six months . Vincent talks with Abby about his time in Vermont and that he would like to move there , but she reminds him she 's from Connecticut and does n't want that kind of life . Because of their open relationship , Abby tells Vincent she had sex with Dave . Vincent gets a new Cadillac from Rudy and Tommy as a gift . As they drive to dinner together , they are shot by people in a following vehicle . They realize Vincent was the target . 16 8 `` Nobody Has to Get Hurt '' Tanya Hamilton George Pelecanos October 28 , 2018 ( 2018 - 10 - 28 ) 0.480 17 9 `` Inside the Pretend '' Minkie Spiro David Simon November 4 , 2018 ( 2018 - 11 - 04 ) TBD