March 4 -- The BBC Television Service broadcasts one of the first television plays specially written for the medium , Condemned To Be Shot by R.E.J. Brooke , live from its London studios at Alexandra Palace . The production is notable for the use of a camera as the first - person perspective of the play 's unseen main character . March 27 -- The BBC broadcasts the entirety of Magyar Melody live from His Majesty 's Theatre in London . The 175 - minute broadcast is the first showing of a full - length musical by television . April Television demonstrations are held at the 1939 New York World 's Fair on Long Island and the Golden Gate International Exhibition in San Francisco . RCA , General Electric , Dumont and others begin selling television sets to the public in the New York City area . Screen sizes typically range from 5 to 12 inches , and Dumont features 14 - inch and 16 - inch models . Prices start at $200 and go as high as $1000 . April 30 -- Franklin D. Roosevelt , appearing at the opening ceremony of the 1939 New York World 's Fair , becomes the first President of the United States to give a speech that is broadcast by television . May 17 -- The first baseball game ( Princeton University vs. Columbia University ) is broadcast by television , from Baker Field in New York . Bill Stern is the announcer . May 19 -- The Walt Disney cartoon Donald 's Cousin Gus airs on NBC 's experimental station W2XBS ( later WNBC - TV ) in New York . This marks the first movie cartoon to be televised in the United States . June 1 -- The first heavyweight boxing match is televised , Max Baer vs Lou Nova , from Yankee Stadium in the Bronx . August 26 The first Major League Baseball game is telecast , a double - header between the Cincinnati Reds and the Brooklyn Dodgers at Ebbets Field , in Brooklyn , New York . Poland broadcasts a feature film for the first time -- Barbara Radziwiłłówna ( 1936 ) -- using the experimental transmitter mounted atop the Prudential building in Warsaw . August 31 -- 18,999 television sets have been sold in England before manufacture stops due to World War II . September 1 -- The anticipated outbreak of World War II brings television broadcasting at the BBC in Britain to an end at 12 : 35 p.m. after the broadcast of a Mickey Mouse cartoon , Mickey 's Gala Premier , various sound and vision test signals , and announcements by presenter Fay Cavendish . It is feared that the VHF waves of television would act as a homing signal for guiding enemy bombers to central London : in any case , the engineers of the television service would be needed for the war effort , particularly for development of radar . The BBC would resume its broadcasting , with the same Mickey Mouse cartoon , after the war in 1946 . September 30 -- The first televised college football game , Fordham University vs Waynesburg College , at Randall 's Island , New York . October 22 -- The first National Football League game is televised . The Brooklyn Dodgers vs. Philadelphia Eagles at Ebbets Field in Brooklyn . November 8 -- CBS television station W2XAB resumes test transmission with an all - electronic system broadcast from the top of the Chrysler Building in New York City .