In the imperial army , the tribunes thus became staff - officers to the legatus . Formally , tribunes were entrusted with the legion 's administration and paperwork , for which purpose they were each provided with a small personal staff of principales and military clerks ( cornicularii ) . Tribunes ' military role was apparently kept ill - defined and flexible , so as to provide the legion commander with a small group of senior officers to carry out special tasks . Tribunes could be asked to command detachments of one or more cohorts ; command specialist units , such as a flotilla ; lead special operations ; supervise fortification projects or the collection of supplies . In a pitched battle scenario , the available evidence does not permit a clear picture of a tribune 's role . For example , Caesar relates ( 57 BC ) : `` Noticing that the 7th legion , which was nearby , was also under heavy pressure , Caesar ordered the military tribunes to gradually join together the two legions ( the 7th and the 12th ) and form a square formation , so that they could advance against the enemy in any direction . '' Or again ( 52 BC ) : `` Caesar ordered the trumpeters to sound the retreat and the 10th legion , which was with him , immediately halted their advance . But the other legions did not hear the signal , as they were separated by a wide depression , although the legates and military tribunes did their best to hold them back , in accordance with Caesar 's orders . '' This evidence is consistent with two possible battle - roles for tribunes . A tribune may have played a formal role in command of a sector of the legion 's battle - line . Alternatively , tribunes may have accompanied the legatus around the field , ready to convey his orders to particular senior centurions , or to assume command of a particular sector of the line at the behest of the legatus . In either case , as Roman knights , tribunes would move around the battle - field on horseback , not on foot like the centurions , and they would generally remain outside the fray , in order to maintain a strategic overview of the field .