Disney had originally considered casting actress Jodi Benson , who famously voiced Ariel in The Little Mermaid , as Belle , but ultimately felt that she sounded `` too American '' and young , opting for a `` more classical ... womanly '' voice instead . Describing the character as `` a woman that was ahead of her time , '' the filmmakers wanted Belle to sound `` more like a woman than a girl . '' However , Benson voiced Belle in a few episodes of Disney 's House of Mouse . Director Kirk Wise was particularly interested in casting an actress capable of `` creat ( ing ) a character completely with her voice '' , envisioning a voice similar to that of American entertainer Judy Garland . American actress and singer Paige O'Hara was performing on Broadway when she first read about Disney 's then - upcoming animated project Beauty and the Beast in an article in The New York Times . Upon discovering that the studio was holding auditions for the lead role of Belle and , at the behest of lyricist Howard Ashman and composer Alan Menken , specifically recruiting Broadway performers , O'Hara immediately insisted that her agent get her an audition . Familiar with O'Hara's Broadway stint as Ellie May Chipley in the musical Show Boat ; Ashman had already been eyeing O'Hara for the part . O'Hara auditioned for the role five times , competing against approximately 500 other actresses . First auditioning solely for casting director Albert Taveres , O'Hara's next two auditions simply required the actress to mail audio recordings of her voice to the studio in Los Angeles . Required to perform a song of her choice , O'Hara sang `` Heaven Help My Heart '' from the musical Chess . At her first legitimate audition , O'Hara spoke and sang in a higher register than her own in an effort to mimic Snow White from Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs , but the filmmakers insisted that she use her own voice instead . In addition to Ashman and Menken , O'Hara's last few auditions were attended by directors Wise and Gary Trousdale , and producers Katzenberg and Don Hahn . O'Hara recalled that the songwriters would first close their eyes and listen to her before finally watching her perform . An hour after her fifth and final audition , O'Hara received a telephone call from Disney on her birthday informing her that she had been cast . The actress was fairly confident that the role was hers before she was officially cast , and credits the fact that Ashman enjoyed her performance on the cast recording of the musical Show Boat . O'Hara admitted , `` I 'm not usually confident about auditions ... but I just understood ( Belle ) so much . ''