The bestselling Thrawn trilogy ( 1991 -- 93 ) by Timothy Zahn begins five years after the events of Return of the Jedi . In Heir to the Empire ( 1991 ) , Leia is married to Han and three months pregnant with twins . Noghri commandos repeatedly attempt to kidnap her as part of Grand Admiral Thrawn 's plan to restore the Empire and crush the New Republic . In Dark Force Rising ( 1992 ) , Leia realizes that Darth Vader and the Empire deceived the Noghri to secure their allegiance , and by revealing the truth she turns the alien race to the side of the New Republic . In The Last Command ( 1993 ) , Leia gives birth to the twins Jaina and Jacen on Coruscant during Thrawn 's siege . Leia , now the Chief of State of the New Republic , is a minor character in the Jedi Academy trilogy ( 1994 ) by Kevin J. Anderson , set after the Thrawn trilogy . Next in the timeline is the Callista trilogy : Children of the Jedi ( 1995 ) by Barbara Hambly , Darksaber ( 1995 ) by Anderson and Planet of Twilight ( 1997 ) by Hambly . In The Crystal Star ( 1994 ) by Vonda McIntyre , young Jacen , Jaina and their three - year - old brother Anakin are kidnapped in a plot to restore the Empire , but are rescued by Leia and Chewbacca . Leia struggles with the responsibilities of her position in The Black Fleet Crisis trilogy ( 1996 ) by Michael P. Kube - McDowell . In The New Rebellion ( 1996 ) by Kristine Kathryn Rusch , she avoids an assassination attempt and then aids in the defeat of the Dark Jedi Kueller , whom she shoots to death . The Corellian trilogy ( 1995 ) by Roger MacBride Allen finds Han and Leia swept up in a civil war while visiting his homeworld of Corellia with their children . In the two Hand of Thrawn novels by Timothy Zahn ( 1997 's Specter of the Past and 1998 's Vision of the Future ) , Leia tries to hold the New Republic together as Moff Disra conspires for its volatile factions to destroy each other . Leia appears periodically in the Young Jedi Knights series ( 1995 -- 98 ) by Kevin J. Anderson and Rebecca Moesta . The 14 - volume young adult fiction series covers the Jedi training of Jacen and Jaina .