No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) 14 `` This Guilty Blood '' Matt Hastings Michael Reisz January 2 , 2017 ( 2017 - 01 - 02 ) 267314 - 14 1.19 A still - missing Jace is held captive on Valentine 's ship . Clave representative Victor Aldertree is instated as the new head of the New York Institute and puts it on lockdown . Clary tells a newly awakened Jocelyn that Jace is her son . Aldertree soon declares Jace a criminal ; wanted dead or alive , and Magnus and Alec quarrel over how to retrieve Jace . Valentine tells Jace he experimented on him in - vitro using demon blood . They portal to land , allowing their location to be revealed to the various parties tracking them , including Jocelyn , who attempts to shoot Jace with a crossbow , before he and Valentine escape back to the ship . 15 `` A Door Into the Dark '' Andy Wolk Y . Shireen Razack January 9 , 2017 ( 2017 - 01 - 09 ) 267314 - 15 0.75 Jocelyn defends her attempt on Jace 's life by explaining the effect Valentine 's experiments had on him as a baby . Upset , Clary seeks solace at the Brooklyn Academy of Art where she is kidnapped by Dot and taken to Valentine . With Clary missing , Jocelyn offers her assistance to Isabelle and Alec by providing adamas , a metal that can be used to track Jace using his and Alec 's bond . Meanwhile at Camille 's Indian residence , Simon and Magnus search for the vampire , whom Raphael is being pressured by the Clave to produce , and find some items from Magnus ' past . With Dot 's help , Jace and Clary flee Valentine 's ship , but not before the risky parabatai tracking renders Alec comatose . 16 `` Parabatai Lost '' Gregory Smith Peter Binswanger January 16 , 2017 ( 2017 - 01 - 16 ) 267314 - 16 0.81 Magnus works to stabilize a failing Alec with magic , but only Jace can save him . After escaping from Valentine 's ship , Clary loses Jace and returns to the Institute . Meanwhile , Jace is hunted by werewolves , including a girl named Maia , who believe he has killed one of their own . Isabelle makes a deal with Aldertree in order to find Jace and save Alec 's life . Magnus transports Alec to his loft , where Jace arrives to revive him . As the parabatai reunite , Clave representatives appear and arrest Jace for high treason . 17 `` Day of Wrath '' Joe Lazarov Jamie Gorenberg January 23 , 2017 ( 2017 - 01 - 23 ) 267314 - 17 0.64 Jace is imprisoned in the City of Bones , where he encounters Hodge . Valentine arrives to break him out , but Jace fights back . Valentine kills Hodge and steals the Soul Sword before disappearing . Clary helps Alec and Isabelle search for a powerful demon with the ability to possess others , but it infiltrates the Institute . Meanwhile , Raphael is tortured by Aldertree for Camille 's whereabouts and goes to Magnus for help . With Camille 's grave dirt found at her house in India , an emotionally conflicted Magnus summons his ex-girlfriend and sends her to the Clave . At the Institute , a possessed Alec kills Jocelyn . The demon then inhabits Isabelle but Clary breaks its hold and succeeds in killing it . 18 5 `` Dust and Shadows '' Salli Richardson - Whitfield Zac Hug January 30 , 2017 ( 2017 - 01 - 30 ) 267314 - 18 0.58 Jace is freed from the City of Bones , but Aldertree , still suspicious of Jace , bans him from the field of duty . Clary seeks the help of a warlock named Iris Rouse to resurrect Jocelyn and swears a blood oath to provide a favor in return for the spell . Isabelle 's wound from her possession is not healing , so Aldertree prescribes a drug named yin fen . Iris traps Clary with the intention of claiming her favor : mating her with a demon in order to create more warlocks . Jace , Isabelle , and Alec arrive to save her , but Clary creates a new rune that helps her escape . Simon struggles with his double life as he moves back home and eventually admits his vampirism to his mother , but his confession goes awry and Raphael wipes his mother 's memory . The Shadowhunters hold a funeral for Jocelyn , and a distraught Luke wakes naked in the wilderness . 19 6 `` Iron Sisters '' Mike Rohl Allison Rymer February 6 , 2017 ( 2017 - 02 - 06 ) 267314 - 19 0.65 Simon and Maia team up to find Luke and begin to form a bond . Alec and Magnus go on their first date and discover a disparity in their romantic pasts . Isabelle and Clary go to the Iron Sisters for help in defeating Valentine and meet Luke 's sister , Cleophas . To enter the Citadel , the two must endure a trial which detects demon impurities ; Clary passes , but Isabelle fails and is informed that yin fen she has been using is made of vampire venom . Maia and Simon find Luke and convince him to return to the pack . Cleophas tells Clary that the Soul Sword has a second purpose : it can kill all demon - blooded creatures , including Downworlders . Clary shows Cleophas her runic power . Magnus and Alec decide to begin a relationship , despite their differences , but are surprised by Jace 's appearance : he has left the Institute due to Aldertree 's treatment and asks to stay with Magnus . Later , Cleophas kills Magdelena , an Iron Sister , and activates a Circle rune , indicating her allegiance to Valentine . 20 7 `` How Are Thou Fallen '' Ben Bray Hollie Overton February 13 , 2017 ( 2017 - 02 - 13 ) 267314 - 20 0.55 Cleophas tells Valentine of Clary 's rune - creating ability , then approaches Luke and Clary , but her brother is unwilling to trust her . Simon goes on a wholly unsuccessful first date with Maia , and Isabelle , now addicted to yin fen , is caught by Magnus at the Hunter 's Moon seeking the drug . She convinces Magnus her search is for a mission , and he tells her to go straight to the source : vampires themselves . Clary hears strange noises , and is convinced that Valentine is responsible . Alec , after going to Isabelle for advice , finds Magnus at his loft and the two consummate their relationship . Figuring out the noises Clary is hearing are the distress calls of an angel Valentine is holding captive , Jace , Clary , Luke , and Cleophas infiltrate his lair , and Clary creates a rune to free the angel . The angel shows Clary and Jace a vision of a cloaked figure destroying the Soul Sword . 21 8 `` Love is a Devil '' Catriona McKenzie Y . Shireen Razack February 20 , 2017 ( 2017 - 02 - 20 ) 267314 - 21 0.67 Alec asks Magnus to hold his little brother Max 's Rune Party at his loft , Magnus agrees . Simon confesses his love for Clary and they start dating . Isabelle is now getting her yin fen fix straight from the source by letting Raphael feed on her . Max 's party is in full swing when things take a turn for the worse , and guests begin seeing their fears and insecurities manifest . Magnus determines that they have all been be-spelled by a hostile warlock and undoes the curse . Magnus identifies the culprit as Iris Rouse , captures her and sends her to Idris . However , Iris invokes the blood oath Clary swore her and instructs her to find the warlock child Madzie who has been kidnapped by Valentine . Jace and Clary tell their friends what they have learned of the Soul Sword and of Clary 's runic abilities , which Magnus identifies marks her as angel - blooded , and thus able to activate the Soul Sword herself . Maryse tells Alec and Jace their father has been cheating on her . 22 9 `` Bound by Blood '' Matt Hastings Peter Binswanger February 27 , 2017 ( 2017 - 02 - 27 ) 267314 - 22 0.52 Clary 's hand suddenly begins to burn and turn to stone , a symptom of blood oath she swore to Iris Rouse . Clary goes to Magnus , who tells her that her only cure lies in finding Madzie . Maia , who fears Clary 's power to activate the Soul Sword and kill all Downworlders , tries to kill her . A Downworlder council meeting takes place where Meliorn and Raphael both agree that Clary must be killed , while Magnus and Luke disagree . Alec is searching for Isabelle , and Magnus , having figured out her yin fen addiction , sends him to Raphael . Alec discovers Isabelle being fed on , and the siblings quarrel ; Magnus also expresses his displeasure with Raphael . Jace tracks Madzie and brings her back to heal Clary , but the young warlock portals Clary to Valentine . Jace and Simon find and save Clary , but Simon is captured by Valentine . 23 10 `` By the Light of Dawn '' Joshua Butler Todd Slavkin & Darren Swimmer March 6 , 2017 ( 2017 - 03 - 06 ) 267314 - 23 0.64 Madzie infiltrates the Institute on Valentine 's behalf , killing many Shadowhunters , but sparing Alec . Jace , Clary and Luke take Dot to Magnus ' . She reveals that Valentine believes that Jace can destroy the Soul Sword and Clary receives a video call from Valentine : he slits Simon 's throat to draw her to the Institute . The group head to the Institute , and Clary , who goes to feed Simon to heal him , is revealed to be a glamoured Jace . Magnus finds and comforts Madzie . Jace attempts to destroy the Sword but inadvertently charges it and Valentine activates it as a Downworlder army storms in , killing all of them . Jace and Valentine battle for the Sword outside and it is revealed that Valentine is actually not Jace 's father . Alec frantically searches for Magnus in the aftermath , and upon finding him safe , the two profess their love for one another . Simon discovers he can now be in the sunlight without being burned . Valentine is taken into custody as the Soul Sword disappears and is picked up by a strange figure in black . 24 11 `` Mea Maxima Culpa '' Matt Hastings Michael Reisz June 5 , 2017 ( 2017 - 06 - 05 ) 267314 - 24 0.71 The Inquisitor Imogen Herondale arrives at the Institute and tortures Valentine for the whereabouts of The Mortal Cup . The Greater Demon Azazel arrives in town also looking for The Cup . The wolves of the New York pack challenge the leadership of their alpha Luke . Isabelle , in the throes of yin fen withdrawal , seeks out Raphael for help , but he refuses to feed on her . She is attacked by Azazel , but is saved by a new Shadowhunter , Sebastian Verlac . Simon talks to Maia about his new ability to survive sunlight . Raphael tells Magnus and Alec about Isabelle coming to him ; Alec thinks that Isabelle has been taken by Azazel . Jace and Clary go to Valentine for help finding the Greater Demon , and he reveals they are not related . Luke 's new police partner Ollie is suspicious of his actions . Isabelle accompanies Sebastian to his apartment where he gives advice on overcoming yin fen addiction . Upon Alec 's request , Magnus summons Azazel , with Valentine as bait . But the demon manages to escape the summoning circle and appears to cast a spell on Magnus and Valentine . 25 12 `` You Are Not Your Own '' Bille Woodruff Jamie Gorenberg June 12 , 2017 ( 2017 - 06 - 12 ) 267314 - 25 0.55 Azazel has cast a body - swapping spell on Magnus and Valentine . Isabelle brings Sebastian back to the institute to help catch the still - at - large Azazel ; Alec heads to Magnus ' loft for help with tracking the demon . When Alec arrives , Azazel attacks him but is vanquished , leaving Valentine and Magnus trapped in one another 's bodies . Magnus , in Valentine 's body , is locked up in the Institute ; he tries to explain the body - swap to Alec , but Alec does not believe him and he is tortured in Valentine 's place for information about the Mortal Cup . Simon fights with Raphael over revealing how he became a daylighter . Imogen prepares to execute Valentine against Clave orders , but Valentine , masquerading as Magnus , has kidnapped Jace and sends a visual message to the cells revealing that Jace is actually a Herondale ; he demands his body be sent to him at Magnus ' loft . The demands are met , and the body - swapping spell is undone . At the last second , Clary pushes Valentine , now back in his own body , through a portal back to the cells at the Institute . Alec tries to comfort Magnus in the aftermath . 26 13 `` Those of Demon Blood '' Michael Goi Zac Hug June 19 , 2017 ( 2017 - 06 - 19 ) 267314 - 26 0.59 Several Shadowhunters are killed and their runes cut - off . Imogen Herondale appoints Jace as the head of the New York Institute . Alec goes to Magnus loft to get a DNA sample to prove he is n't involved in the killings ; the two fight and Magnus demands he leave . Imogen suggests micro-chipping all Downworlders to be constantly aware of their whereabouts , Alec vehemently disagrees , but Jace seems amenable to the idea . Max arrives and Isabelle is appointed his tutor . Clary is attacked and injured but Simon rescues her and takes her to the Institute . Jace heads to the Hunter 's Moon to begin chipping werewolves and he and Maia get into a physical fight which results in her being chipped . Luke , angered at the Shadowhunters ' behaviour , tells Jace to leave . An upset and tipsy Magnus spends some time with Dot . Isabelle meets Raphael for help finding the killer , Max follows her and is kidnapped . With Meliorn 's help , they find Max and kill the culprit , a Seelie named Kaelie . Jace appoints Alec head of the Institute . Alec apologises to Magnus , and the two reconcile . Jace , on Alec 's orders , de-chips Maia , and the two sleep together . 27 14 `` The Fair Folk '' Chris Grismer Taylor Mallory June 26 , 2017 ( 2017 - 06 - 26 ) 267314 - 27 0.67 Alec sends Clary and Jace on a mission to the Seelie Court ; Simon insists on joining them . At the Institute , Alec begins the Downworlder Cabinet , a weekly meeting with representatives from the warlocks , vampires , Seelies , and werewolves . Alec discusses the Institute 's new policy of complete transparency with Magnus , Luke , Meliorn and Raphael . Maryse is back in town ; her and Isabelle discuss her father 's infidelity and Isabelle 's yin fen addiction . They reconcile . At the Seelie Court , the Seelie Queen drives a wedge between Simon and the Shadowhunters by revealing Clary still harbors feelings for Jace . An unknown individual with a plot to execute Valentine contacts Luke . Luke heads down to the Institute cells to kill Valentine , but is foiled by Sebastian and Alec . Alec decides not to press charges . Isabelle asks Raphael to pursue a relationship with her and he refuses . Sebastian plays piano next to several burner phones on a chair . Hearing a noise from a closet , he threatens a bound man he has kept inside . 28 15 `` A Problem of Memory '' Peter DeLuise Allison Rymer July 10 , 2017 ( 2017 - 07 - 10 ) 267314 - 28 0.46 Alec is worried about Magnus ' wellbeing , he questions Magnus , but is assured by the warlock nothing is amiss . Simon breaks up with Clary , and Isabelle comforts her . That night Simon is introduced to a Bleeder 's Den , where vampires bite mundanes to get high ; a girl is found dead the next morning and Simon worries he may be the culprit . Sebastian 's cousin , Aline , arrives at the New York Institute ; the man captive in Sebastian 's apartment is revealed to be the real Sebastian . After being arrested by Luke 's police partner Ollie , Simon returns to the Bleeder 's Den and stakes the real murderer of the dead girl . As a result of the torture he suffered in Valentine 's body , Magnus is having flashbacks of the night he found his mother , dead . He finally confesses his struggles to Alec , who consoles him . The real Sebastian escapes and tries to warn Aline , but his captor kills him before he can reach her . The Shadowhunters portal Valentine to Idris , but are circumvented with Valentine ending up at Sebastian 's apartment . Sebastian 's true form is revealed and he calls Valentine `` father '' . 29 16 `` Day of Atonement '' Paul Wesley Peter Binswanger July 17 , 2017 ( 2017 - 07 - 17 ) 267314 - 29 0.59 Sebastian holds Valentine captive ; he intends to send him to Edom as punishment for Valentine doing the same to him . Jace suspects Valentine is hiding in a cabin in Idris where he spent time during his childhood . Clary draws a portal rune and the two are transported to Lake Lyn in Idris . Jace and Clary lose track of each other and Clary hallucinates the Angel Ithuriel who tells her that Jonathan is alive . Alec senses Jace is in trouble through their parabatai bond and with the help of his father Robert , sends Isabelle to find him . Isabelle finds Jace and together they retrieve Clary and cure her of the hallucinogenic effects of the waters of Lake Lyn . The three look for the cabin only to find it deserted . Robert reveals to Alec that the Clave never recovered the Soul Sword and has been lying to the Downworld . Valentine convinces Sebastian to work with him . With information they found at the cabin , Clary realizes that her real brother Jonathan is still alive . 30 17 `` A Dark Reflection '' Jeffrey Hunt Hollie Overton July 24 , 2017 ( 2017 - 07 - 24 ) 267314 - 30 0.60 Sebastian is revealed to be in possession of the Soul Sword , thus with two of the three Mortal Instruments , he and Valentine hunt for the Mortal Mirror . Luke receives a message from Cleophas , still Valentine 's captive , that the Clave lied about possessing the Soul Sword ; he shares the information with Magnus . Magnus confronts Alec with the news and is furious that it was kept from him . No longer able to trust the Clave , he debates aligning with the Seelie Queen . Isabelle struggles with the fact that Max is growing up and convinces Maia to give a relationship with Simon a chance . Sebastian is torn about his loyalty to Valentine , as it pits him against his sister , Clary . Jace and Clary find out that her mother had hidden The Mortal Mirror . With the help of Dot , they recover it before being attacked by Sebastian . Dot stays behind to give them a change to escape . Max uses a hair he found to track Jonathan to Sebastian . He challenges Sebastian with this knowledge . 31 18 `` Awake , Arise , or Be Forever Fallen '' Amanda Row Jamie Gorenberg July 31 , 2017 ( 2017 - 07 - 31 ) 267314 - 31 0.63 Max lies in a coma following Jonathan 's attack and the Institute is put on lockdown when it becomes clear Jonathan is inside . Magnus and Luke meet with the Seelie Queen , who proposes a Downworlder alliance against Valentine , even if it means starting a war with the Shadowhunters . Luke refuses immediately while Magnus is given time to decide . Jonathan steals the Mortal Mirror . Magnus chooses to serve his people over his relationship with Alec and breaks up with him . Clary discovers Sebastian is Jonathan when he fails a test and manages to get the Mirror back before he escapes the Institute . However , her attempt to disarm the Mirror destroys it , and she realizes the real Mirror is Lake Lyn in Idris . 32 19 `` Hail and Farewell '' Matt Hastings Bryan Q. Miller August 7 , 2017 ( 2017 - 08 - 07 ) 267314 - 32 0.60 33 20 `` Beside Still Water '' Matt Hastings Todd Slavkin & Darren Swimmer August 14 , 2017 ( 2017 - 08 - 14 ) 267314 - 33 0.59 The dying Jonathan washed ashore on the shore of Manhattan , and using his blood , he summoned the wraith demons . Meanhwhile , Luke and Simon comes to Magnus after Maia 's abduction , and in the final battle , Valentine eventually succedded in summoning Raziel and killed Jace . Clary , in a fit of rage , stabs Valentine , finally killing him . With Raziel 's summoning , Clary wishes for Jace 's resurrection .