Bat Blastagun ( voiced by Neil Ross ) - A bat outlaw . He and his gang caused trouble for Miller Glen where they even bested Sheriff T - Bone . When Bat Blastagun 's gang returned to Miller Glen to set it ablaze , they encountered Moo Montana where he and his men were able to use tactics to drive Bat Blastagun 's gang away . The next morning , Bat Blastagun plans his revenge on Moo Montana . He starts by having his gang abduct Bessy Bluebell from the Miller Glen School . Moo follows the note where he heads to Batwing Cave and falls into Bat Blastagun 's trap . With help from Cyclone , Moo gets free , frees Bessy , and escapes from Bat Blastagun . Back in Miller Glen , Moo faces off against Bat Blastagun in a showdown where he manages to defeat them with help from the townsfolk . In `` How the West Was Shrunk , '' Bat Blastagun and his gang escape from prison where they stumble upon the shard of the comet that created Moo Mesa . Upon enlisting the help of the mad scientist Dr. Wolfgang Wolfenstein , Bat Blastagun uses the weaponized shard as part of a plot to shrink the C.O.W - Boys and rob all of Cowtown 's gold . Upon getting the C.O.W. - Boys shrunken , Bat Blastagun 's men try to grab them until a tumbleweed sweeps them up . Bat Blastagun then makes himself a self - appointed marshal where he holds a bounty on the C.O.W. - Boys as Saddle Sore and Boot Hill Buzzard take part in it . Bat Blastagun later has Mayor Bulloney , Saddle Sore , and Boot Hill Buzzard thrown locked up as an extra precaution . After an attempt to catch the C.O.W. - Boys , Bat Blastagun shrinks Cowtown and then leads his gang back to Dr. Wolfgang Wolfenstein to recharge the shard . Using a large lizard , the C.O.W. - Boys follow Bat Blastagun 's gang to Dr. Wolfgang Wolfenstein 's castle . Upon reversing the device so that the shard can make things big , Moo returns to normal size and claims the shard to restore Dakota Dude and Cowlorado Kid back to normal size . Bat Blastagun and his gang are imprisoned and the shard is confiscated by the C.O.W. - Boys . Gil - A lizard who is a part of Bat Blastagun 's gang . He is shown to carry an unnamed snake member of Bat Blastagun 's gang . Sid - A spider who is part of Bat Blastagun 's gang . He wields a gun that shoots webs .