Andy and Company . A TV show which is actually the show 's version of the `` Arthur '' show . BINKY . A `` fake '' band , only shown as holograms . Performed by the Finnish folk - pop group V채rttin채 . Bionic Bunny . portrayed by Wilbur Rabbit ( Arthur Holden ) . He is nicknamed `` Bubonic Bunny '' by D.W. Capri DiVapida : A not - so - bright celebrity that tends to set fashion trends . She once ate dog biscuits and thinks that yellow is a flavour . She carries around a non-anthropomorphic pet chihuahua named Pixel and says that she gets inspiration for fashion trends from him , such as nose cones . Carpetmice Chickin Lickin ' . A chicken restaurant owned and operated by Beauergaurd Poulet . Crazy Bus . A nonsensical song . Numerous merchandise occurred and had a fanbase of all ages . Dark Bunny . `` The Dark Bunny Show '' suffers time slot changes . One time it moved from after school to Saturday mornings , another time it was cancelled entirely . In `` Happy Anniversary '' a crossover special Arthur missed revealed that Dark Bunny and Bionic Bunny are twins separated at birth . Henry Skreever . Arthur and his friends are huge fans of the series and wait till midnight for the release of his new book in one episode . In another episode Prunella meets Marina over a braille copy of the book . Hoprah Linseed . A self - help type talk show and is idolized by Muffy . Horrendously Horrible Happenings . A series of books by author Persimmony Glitchet which Fern is a fan of . James Hound . A character who appeared to release a new film in the episode `` Arthur Makes A Movie '' . Loki Benediktssen . Love Ducks . A psychedelic series designed for young children . Arthur becomes a fan of the show but tries to hide it from others because he realizes the show is a `` baby show '' . The Magic Tool Box . An educational show for children . Mary Moo Cow . Portrayed by Patty Jones , news anchor for `` $ tock Market Today '' . She canceled `` Mary Moo Cow '' because she `` needed a change '' and thought that nobody liked Mary Moo Cow . She was proven wrong once she read the petition organized by D.W. Read . Patty Jones became more involved with Mary Moo Cow after that and returned episodes of Mary Moo Cow to television . Mary Moo Cow 's content is mildly educational , and has cat puppets for sidekicks . M체dikr체de . A heavy metal band which Molly is a fan of . My Fluffy Unicorn . Watched by D.W. and Muffy . Polly Locket . A doll with a compartment hidden in her face which acts as a locket . RiddleQuest . Game show , with Trebek appearing in animation as `` Alek Lebeck . '' The set design is a simple white background filled with question marks with two contestants . The consolation prize is 100 boxes of Choco Stick . The Scare - Your - Pants - Off Club The author is E.A. D'Poe , which is the pen name of a retired teacher , Ms. McWord . Ed Crosswire was one of her students . McWord was appalled when she found out that he was in charge of Parents Against Weird Stories which banned her books . The banned books ended up in the possession of Muffy . Arthur lost the newest book when he checked it out from the library . Ms. Turner said it was found and returned but she denied his request to renew it because of a long waiting list . Silly Squirrels . A young kids show starring cute squirrels . Arthur and his friends rent videos of several episodes to calm their fear of squirrels after seeing a horror film called `` The Squirrels '' . Spooky - Poo . The main character is a kangaroo . Mr. Ratburn is a huge fan . $ tock Market Today . Hosted by anchor Patty Jones , who is also Mary Moo Cow . She considered taking Mary Moo Cow off the air because she thought nobody watched it . Supermarket Clerks . A TV reality contest show about contestants working as clerks in a supermarket . Arthur dislikes the show which the rest of the family are fans of . Terrific Turbo - Trooper Toy T - Bot Team , mispronounced as `` Terrible Tuba Two - fers '' , and `` Terminal Tire Tube Team '' by D.W. Read . Influenced the Tibble Twins who ignored the `` Remember Kids : Do n't try this at home ! '' disclaimer and injured D.W. After hearing that their favorite show is `` not real '' . They later decided to become fans of `` real '' programs such as wrestling and football . The program was disliked by Mrs. Read because of the unrealistic violence . The Freddy Spangler Show : A show that appeared at the start of `` Arthur 's Family Feud '' . The Squirrels : An old horror film about squirrels that take over the world . Uni is a pink winged unicorn with blue hair whom DW considers giving to the Tibbles in `` Hic or Treat '' Vance Legstrong . A pale bear who appeared in the episode Binky Vs. Binky but was replaced by Lance Armstrong , beginning with episode Room To Ride . Vegemorphs . A series of books Arthur and his friends are fans of . VidieBoobies . A show Kate enjoys because she feels it portrays the life of babies realistically . Virgule Watteau .