No . Title Original airdate `` The Dawn of Despair '' `` Zetsubō no Makuake '' ( 絶望 の 幕開け ) January 9 , 2018 In the Slane Theocracy , the Captain of the Black Scripture & Zesshi Zetsumei discuss the mystery of Magic Caster Ainz Ooal Gown for his growing celebrity as a magic caster , and a recent vampire attack which killed two Scripture members and severely wounded Lady Kaire . Zesshi expresses intrigue in Ainz , as she seeks a man capable of defeating her so as to sire for her a more powerful child . Meanwhile in another location , former adventurer Rigrit of the original 13 Heroes & the Platinum Dragon Lord discuss the possibility that a dark and powerful player from Yggdrasil may have arrived to this New World . In the Re-Estize Capital , Gazef Stronoff is with the King as the Counts of the Kingdom decide to bring the annual war to Baharuth , and the King apologizes for not having sent full support for the events of Carne Village . After a brief visit by Princess Renner & her squire Climb , The King asks Gazef to request a meeting with Ainz Ooal Gown to show his gratitude for saving Gazef . After Ainz finishes a job as Momon , he returns to Nazarick to give a debriefing to Albedo ( simply ecstaticed of his return ) of what he has learned in relation to the notable nation states in the known world in proximity of Nazarick 's position on the map . Meanwhile , Shalltear ( guilt - ridden by her mind control attack Ainz ) drinks herself into a stupor while Eclair , Sebas ' assistant Butler , fails at trying to cheer her up . Cocytus is sent to start a war with the Lizardmen and claim the fallen for a later army of undead . In the village of the Lizardmen , Green Claw Tribe Chieftain Shasryu discuss daily life with his younger brother Zaryusu when a monstrous entity comes from the clouds . `` Departure '' `` Tabidachi '' ( 旅立ち ) January 16 , 2018 The dark entity which descends from the sky is a Herald forewarning the Lizardmen of the Green Claw Tribe of an invasion in eight days time . Zaryusu advises an alliance with the other Lizardmen tribes - Small Fang , Razor tail , Dragon Tusk , and Red Eye . But as Dragon Tusk has survivors of defeated Tribes Yellow Speckle & Sharp Edge , there is little to no hope of alliance with them . Zaryusu is permitted by his brother the Chieftain to be the envoy to seek an alliance with the other tribes . Reaching the Red Eye tribe , Zaryusu meets Crusch Lulu the Interim Chief / Priestess of the village . Enamored by her , he instinctively lets out a mating cry desiring to marry her . After an awkward start , the two discuss an alliance and reach a consensus . Planning to build an alliance , Zaryusu & Crusch arrive in the Dragon Tusk village and meet the Chieftain Zenburu Gugu , who also received the Herald 's message , but will only join the alliance if Zaryusu can prove his worth in combat . Back in Nazarick , Demiurge talks with Eclair , and it is revealed both are aware of Eclair 's hidden agenda to usurp Nazarick 's Throne as that was his design by Ankoro Mochi Mochi . As a decoy replica of Nazarick is under construction , Cocytus is informed by his subordinates of Demiurge 's scroll mission and the need to report regularly . Cocytus takes this news , and readys his army for the coming war in a few days . Aura , overseeing the construction of the decoy replica of Nazarick , receives a gift from Ainz in the form of a talking wristwatch with the voice of her creator Lady Bukubuku Chagama dictating Lunch Hour . `` Lizard Men , Gathering '' `` Tsudou , Rizādoman '' ( 集う 、 蜥蜴 人 ) January 23 , 2018 Zenburu fights Zaryusu , and they wager the role of Chief & Crusch for a mate . Zaryusu realizes his physical strength is less than Zanburu , but uses his Frost Pain axe item to freeze Zenburu with each attack , causing Zenburu to yield realizing he ca n't keep fighting an item which will kill him as he fights . The group parties to discuss the alliance , and Dragon Tusk joins in . Heading to the Razor Tail Tribe , the First attack site of the Hearld 's message , Shasryu greets the trio and everyone gathers for a scout reports the odds are against them with forces 3 : 1 . Cocytus views on a crystal monitor their gathering & orders the attack . The Lizardmen put up a moderate resistance , until the five Chiefs use their Magic Caster abilities to quickly summon Swamp Elementals . Entoma informs Lord Ainz , who views the situation with the Battle as unexpected . Cocytus messages Demiurge for insight , the latter informing him to think for himself as to how to ration and deploy troops against the Lizardmen , as it may be the undisclosed wish of Lord Ainz . Cocytus orders an Elder Lich Caster Commander into the fight , tearing down resistance with relative ease . Seeing their chance to enter the fight , Zaryusu sacrifices his steed Hydra Snake Rororo to get in close to the Lich to fight alongside Crusch & Zenburu , who are later rendered incapacitated , leaving Zaryusu to muster what strength he has left to trap himself and the Lich Commander in a massive ice cage . After much pain and many attacks , Zaryusu is victorious by surprise attacking the Lich in a fog and driving his Frost Pain into the former 's brain . With the Lizardmen victorious in the battle , Cocytus must answer to Ainz . `` Army of Death '' `` Shi no Gunzei '' ( 死 の 軍勢 ) January 30 , 2018 The Lizardmen celebrate victory ; Zaryus & Crusch are alone in a tent blushing , when Zenburu barges in wondering if their `` having fun '' - much to their shock . Back in Nazarick , Ainz introduces 8th Floor Guardian ' Victim ' to the others , to prepare for unforeseen encounters ; Demiurge was successful in making higher quality scrolls using Sheep Beastmen ; Ainz promises to fulfill Shalltear 's need for punishment later on . Lastly , as Cocytus was defeated , Ainz explains he gave Cocytus a weak army so he 'd learn to adapt & reapply resources as a leader . As all of Cocytus ' forces were low Tier undead , there was no risk for Nazarick . But Cocytus must face punishment : he is to eradicate the Lizardmen . Cocytus instead asks the Lizardmen be spared into servitude of Nazarick . When Ainz asks why , Demiurge steps in proposing it could benefit them to see how governing a new people under Nazarick would work , as they may have to again in the future and starting now would help prepare them . Ainz agrees , but demands Cocytus rule them by means without fear . Ainz only wanted to hear Cocytus ' free opinion , demanding his Guardians think over their orders so as to bring greater benefit to Nazarick . After departing , Demiurge states to the Guardians that Ainz intended for all this , wishing they learn to be more interdependent in their goal for conquest , and Cocytus ' mission was also a probe of the Lizardmen . In his bedroom , Momonga is happy his guardians are learning to evolve , and also notices a familiar floral scent ( Albedo 's ) . The next day , the Guardians & Ainz himself return to the battlefield in a grand show of force : freezing the lake , Gargantua ( twice the height of the forest ) throws a massive stone in the center of the lake , & the undead perform a royal procession for Ainz to sit atop the stone and speak before the Lizardmen . When the Shasha brothers act as representatives , Demiurge uses controller magic to have them bow properly before Ainz ' decree : Cocytus will arrive in 4 hours time to fight them on his own , and if they win they 're forever free of Nazarick . The Five Tribe leaders discuss sending only themselves , with Crusch to stay behind & lead . As she argues against this , the Tribe Leaders leave Zaryusu to talk with her - they both accept that there will be death and Crusch demands Zaryusu impregnate her to preserve their love . 5 `` The Freezing God '' `` Hyōketsu no Bushin '' ( 氷結 の 武神 ) February 6 , 2018 The Lizardmen champions - The Shasha Brothers , Zenburu , with Kyuku Zuzu and Sukyu Juju ( Razor Tail & Small Fang Chieftains respectively ) prepare for battle with Cocytus . During this preparation , Ainz & his guardians enter a temporary base of operations while Victim Guards the First Floor as they 're out . Upon seeing a make shift throne for himself by his guardians , he opts to use Shalltear as a chair as her due punishment ( when really he felt uneasy about sitting in a chair made of bones ) ; this enrages Albedo but hyper stimulates Shalltear 's pleasure . While observing the Lizardmen , the Mirror of Remote Viewing stumbles on Zaryusu & Crusch having sex - which starts a conversation Ainz forces to be quiet . The Lizardmen champions stand ready , and Cocytus arrives to do battle equipped in his Floor Guardian gear . Many Lizardmen die leaving only the Shasha brothers . Cocytus asks for their names and grants them the honor of death by his God Slaying Emperor Blade . Repeating the fog & surprise attack maneuver , they 're easily countered & Shasryu is killed . Later , Ainz congratulates Cocytus for his victory & summons Crusch over for a deal : report & monitor her people for any signs of rebellion and Ainz will revive Zaryusu . Crusch agrees and Ainz resurrects Zaryusu ( suffering confusion & level loss from the Yggdrasil rez function ) among the villagers - who now worship him a god . After pledging their fidelity , Zaryusu asks for his brother & Zenburu be returned as well , and Ainz takes it into consideration having the Lizardmen keep their bodies safeguarded . Tired , Zaryusu & Crusch go to get rest . 6 `` Those who pick up , Those who are picked up '' `` Hirou mono , Hirowa reru mono '' ( 拾う 者 、 拾 われる 者 ) February 13 , 2018 While still in the Re-Estize capital , Sebas goes to the Magician 's Guild to purchase a spell scroll , and on his way back to the mansion stumbles upon a brutalized young woman who , after remembering the words of his creator Player Touch Me , takes her to safety . The man who threw her away begs Sebas not to as he will be killed by the Eight Fingers crime syndicate for allowing an asset to be taken ; Sebas gives the man money to flee town as a response . Upon his return , Solution is taken aback by Sebas ' care for the young girl & having Solution heal her of injury . Waking up she is fed , and breaks down crying for being shown the level of kindness Sebas has given , and revealing her name is Tuare . Sebas orders Solution not inform Lord Ainz , stating it is not worth his time knowing about a meager human girl . Meanwhile , Gazef has breakfast with Brain Unglaus , who is in a depressive state following his encounter with Shalltear , and Gazef tries to help him . Out in a secluded region , Adamantite Adventurer Team Blue Rose destroys an illegal crop used in the production of a powerful narcotic called Black Dust . While scouting , Blue Rose member Evileye finds a parchment with code which can lead them to the leaders of Eight Fingers . As the same time , the heads of Eight Fingers discuss the crop burning and the girl 's rescue by Sebas . At the table , Zero , head of Eight Fingers Security , promises Coco Doll , head of the Slave Department , that his men will return the girl to their possession . 7 `` Blue Roses '' `` Aoi no Bara '' ( 蒼 の 薔薇 ) February 20 , 2018 As Ainz reviews the New World finances , he finds it difficult to manage funds for the Lizardmen budget & the undercover Nazarick agents . Narberal , as Nabe , comes to Ainz in regards to the various ore samples he had bought to do an appraisal experiment on the Exchange Box , to see which ore from where yields the most gold . He gives Nabe all the money he has left , reminding her to be covert & pleasant to humans for their covers , and silently frets on financial woes . Elsewhere , Climb is given a sparring session by Gazef , who informs Climb of Ainz Ooal Gown , having saved his life , for the young bodyguard to remember . After the spar , Gazef notes to his Vice-Chief that Climbs power ca n't go pass that of a Gold ranked Adventurer and his efforts wo n't change that , but he can still learn from experience . Across the way , Gazef sees Prince Zanac talking with Marquis Raven , likely forming an alliance dispite Kingdom factions as Raven is an opportunist . Meeting with Princess Renner , Climb is introduced to Blue Rose Leader Lakyus Alvein Dale Aindra along with Blue Rose Twin Assassin Tina . Under Renner 's guidance , they learn the code they discovered at the Black Dust crop is really a list of locations of importance to Eight Fingers in the capital city . One location not listed , is an underground brothel in the capital , and Blue Rose brings Climb to investigate alongside them ; however , remembering a Nobleman 's daughter serves as one of Renner 's maids , they worry of their plans having been uncovered . Meanwhile , Sebas has Tuare serve as the maid of the manor he & Solution are using as cover to better sell that identity , but are later found by Succulent ( an Eight Fingers agent ) & Constable Staffan Havish . The two ' ask ' for compensation for Sebas ' purchasing Tuare despite the Anti-Slave laws , so as to be pardoned for his ' crime ' . Permitting Sebas two days to think over their proposal , the two take their leave . As Sebas goes on a `` walk '' to clear his mind , Solution messages Ainz to inform him Sebas may have been compromised . 8 `` A Boy 's Feeling '' `` Shōnen no Omoi '' ( 少年 の 思い ) February 27 , 2018 Climb heads to an Inn where Gagaran & Evileye are having lunch and informs both of them Lakyus wants both of them to be ready to mobilize . As the conversation goes on , Evileye informs the both of them of the new Adamantite team `` Darkness '' with adventurers Momon & Nabe , with The Wise King of the Forest as a pet - leaving Gagaran astounded by their reported feats . Climb wishes to be capable of such strength , but the duo advise him to go his own pace , and not to lose his humanity in pursuit of power . Meanwhile , Brain Unglaus runs errands for Gazef , and goes past a crowd watching a group of drunk men assaulting a boy for simply bumping into them ; Climb also goes by the crowd and moves to stop the matter . Both see Sebas move with skill & speed to resolve the matter in one punch . They separately follow the butler into an alleyway , where Climb enthusiastically asks Sebas for a quick lesson in strength after witnessing him recently . Sebas sees Climb as trustworthy and gives him a lesson : how to overcome fear of death . By flooding Climb 's sense with killing intent , Climb dodges at the last possible instance by overcoming his fear , by thinking of Renner . Brain , having witnessed this around the corner , is moved by Climb 's ability to overcome intense fear , and asks to also learn from Sebas . However , the trio are beset by five assassin 's sent by Succulent - which Sebas downs three , for the last two to be handled by Brain & Climb . With their attackers downed , Sebas uses a skill to easily interrogate one of them on where to find Succulent & the Eight Fingers . The trio move together out of a grown respect for each other , and move to destroy Eight Fingers in the Capital of Re-Estize . They head for Succulent 's brothel - the same place Sebas rescued Tuare from . 9 `` Soaring Sparks of Fire '' `` Mai Agaru Hi no ko '' ( 舞い上がる 火の粉 ) March 6 , 2018 Sebas , Brain & Climb arrive at the brothel and use two entryways : the front door to the main brothel , and the side entrance to the underground storage area . Climb & Brain take the latter door , while Sebas charges the front . Sebas forewarns the duo that if needed , he will kill opposition inside if he is forced to , with the both of them understanding ; they only ask that the Eight Fingers leaders Coco Doll & Succulent be captured . Sebas easily removes the steel door and knocks away the guards , and comes across Constable Staffan Havish mercilessly assaulting a slave girl for pleasure . Sebas bitch slaps Staffan into a bloody state , and after the Constables pleas for mercy with money , Sebas concludes he is unworthy of life and kicks him in half . Brain & Climb stop their opposition and locate a trap door ( courtesy of items by Gagaran ) leading to the underground storage . While Brain scouts further in having Climb stand watch , Coco Doll & Succulent arrive by a hidden passage in front of the young warrior . Succulent uses his illusion magic to gravely injure Climb , until Brain returns & defeats him with his God Slash Technique . The trio are successful in apprehending two of the Eight Fingers , and return to their respective homes : Brain returns to Gazef 's home and the two have dinner discussing Climb 's progress & Shalltear by name ; Sebas returns to the manor , only for Solution to be in her Pleadies attire , telling him Ainz is in the next room waiting to speak with him ; Climb returns to Renner , who is pleased he is safe . After Climb retires for the night , Renner calls in the maid she knows is spying on her to tell her about how amazing Climb was - only for her to actually plan on killing the maid for disrespecting Climb within her earshot . Late at night , Zero gathers the remaining members of Six Arms , to kill Sebas , Climb & Brain for opposing them . 10 `` Disturbance Begins in the Royal Capital '' `` Ōto Dōran Joshō '' ( 王 都 動乱 序章 ) March 13 , 2018 Ainz ( really Pandora 's Actor in disguise ) investigates Sebas ' possible betrayal , with Demiurge , Victim , & Cocytus as witnesses . He orders Sebas to kill Tuare to see if he is loyal . Sebas does so proving his merit , and having his attacked blocked by Cocytus , who confirms the butler as a steadfast servant to Nazarick . Ainz ( Pandora 's Actor ) departs with Victim to Nazarick , and Sebas talks with Tuare in the hall , where Sebas will petition Ainz for her bad memories to be erased , but she also wishes to continue serving Sebas ; the butler relents , agreeing to ask his master , having an overjoyed Tuare to kissed him in delight . After the real Ainz arrives , the Overlord hears the girl 's name & knows she is the sister of Ninya ( the spell caster from the Swords of Darkness ) , thus he allows Sebas ' request of having her as a provisional maid - at the cost of his role as head of the Pleadies , with the youngest sister Aureole Omega transition to the role of Pleadies and having Yuki Alpha serve a deputy leader . In the Re-Estize capital , Renner & Blue Rose meet to discuss the raids on Eight Fingers , but Marquis Raeven & Prince Zanac arrive with a solution . After a mild topic of Renner 's true persona , she reveals she has damning intelligence on the Royal & Noble Factions , she coerces Raeven to lend his private army to the simultaneous raids of Eight Fingers . He reluctantly agrees , and Zanac reveals their eldest brother Barbro has a hidden storehouse in trade with Eight Fingers , which is now added to the map . Renner also reveals her ace against the syndicate , aside from Blue Rose 's aid , is Gazef himself . After a long day of acquiring materials for Demiurge to feed his livestock of Arbelion Sheep , Sebas & Solution return to the manor to find Tuare missing & a note from Six Arms challenging Sebas for her freedom . Solution reminds Sebas of Ainz 's words , and they message their master of the situation . Ainz , preoccupied as Momon elsewhere , relays to Albedo to send reinforcements . While initially hesitant to aid a human , she relents & sends the forces for Demiurge to command onsite to destroy Eight Fingers . Albedo , to herself , then thinks of the name Ainz Ooal Gown after the Guild name to be ridiculous , preferring Momonga - as evident by his original player banner draped on the wall , and the guild flag on the floor . 11 `` Jaldabaoth '' `` Yarudabaoto '' ( ヤルダバオト ) March 20 , 2018 After Sebas departs to rescue Tuare from Six Arms , Demiurge lays out the plan for his `` Operation : Gehenna '' to the Pleadies , Mare , & Shalltear . Meanwhile in the Royal Encampment , Climb and Brain are teamed up with former adventurer Lockmyer to raid one of the known Eight Fingers bases ; they later meet Sebas , who was summoned to the same base as the trio to fight the Six Arms . Lockmyer gives a recon report , allowing a plan for Sebas to move in to fight Six Arms while Climb , Brain , & Lockmyer infiltrate to rescue Tuare . When Sebas encounters Six Arms , he finds four of them present , surrounded by henchmen & corrupt patrons watching . With introductions out of the way , Sebas takes a few seconds to kill the Six Arms members , while Solution reports that she has n't found Zero amidst the patrons . Elsewhere at Hilma 's residence , she wakes up to find her home encased in shrubbery . Encountering Mare , Hilma tries to see why he is in her home , but is taken aback when she sees Enotma in a corner eating the severed limb of a servant ; Mare breaks her leg to drag her away , leaving Entoma to empty the manor . When Entoma is snacking on a human body part , Gagaran has a chance encounter with her & fights the bug maid thinking she is with Eight Fingers . As they fight , Tia from Blue Rose offers aid to Gagaran but both are overwhelmed , until Evileye arrives to save them using her original magic `` Vermin Bane '' - a pesticide magic . Entoma , an insectoid , is greatly damaged by the spell - losing her voice & mask / face bugs ; she then rampages on the Blue Rose trio with what she has left . They overpower and defeat Entoma , but the bug maid is rescued by Jaldabaoth and taken to safety . Seeing the immense power the demon has , Evileye screams for her comrades to run away , but they are killed by the demon 's Hellfire Wall stun attack . Evileye rages in attacks at the demon , to no avail ; planning to go down swinging , Evileye charges at the demon but is halted by the arrival of Momon . 12 `` The Final Battle of the Disturbance '' `` Dōran Saishū Kessen '' ( 動乱 最終 決戦 ) March 27 , 2018 Evileye requests Momon 's help to Jaldabaoth , to which he obliges . Momon ( Ainz ) proves himself to be Jaldabaoth 's ( Demiruge ) equal , while defending Evileye at the same time , which results in Evileye developing romantic feelings for Momon . Jaldabaoth eventually leaves the fight , stating that he needs to find an item from within the city , saying that he will guard the region the item is in . While Evileye wants to follow him , Momon decides not to , citing the reason to be that Jaldabaoth was still holding back , resulting in Evileye 's belief that Momon is trying to protect her . She accidentally angers Momon and Nabe , when she mentions how Gagaran , Tia and herself , nearly killed Entoma , but when she points out that they failed to do so , he calms down instantly . Momon / Ainz suspects that Evileye is suspicious of him due to his sudden bloodlust on hearing of Entoma , mistaking her true affections . Evileye reveals that Lakyus can use 5th tier resurrection magic to save her comrades . Meanwhile , Brain , Climb and Lockmyer are escorting Tuare out , when the encounter Zero , who challenges Brain to a fight , while `` Tuare '' is revealed to be Succulent , waiting to ambush them , a fact that Brian and Lockmyer were already aware of . Together , Lockmyer and Climb manage to beat Succulent , with Climb using a special Martial art to release his body 's full potential and Lockmyer using various tricks to distract Succulent and assist Climb . Brain and Zero ( who as a monk , can harden his skin like iron and increase the strength of his blows exponentially ) prove to be evenly matched , with each other . Sebas , who has rescued the real Tuare , wanders in and discovers the fight , which leaves Zero stunned , and in disbelief , refusing to believe that the Six arms were killed . He abandons his fight with Brain and unleashes his strongest attack on Sebas , who takes it without flinching and kills Zero with a single heel - drop kick straight to the head . Sebas leaves with Tuare , but promises to return the debt he owes to Climb and Brian for their assistance in helping save her . A circle of fire emerges within the city , seen by everyone , created by Jaldabaoth . Princess Renner arranges for the adventurers and the soldiers to enter the ring and kill the demons present inside , while Climb , Brain & Lockmyer attempt to save the citizens inside and Momon , Nabe & Evileye move into the center to fight Jaldabaoth . It is revealed that she intends to use the adventurers and soldiers as cannon fodder , while the Momon 's group moves in to kill Jaldabaoth , and she has put Climb in a dangerous position , knowing he may die , but also knowing that Lakyus would be able to resurrect him , and that would allow her to care for the weakened Climb afterwards , without anyone 's protest . 13 `` The Ultimate Trump Card '' `` Saikyō Saikō no Kirifuda '' ( 最強 最高 の 切り札 ) April 3 , 2018