No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code `` Fame '' Dan Riba Dwayne McDuffie April 23 , 2010 ( 2010 - 04 - 23 ) 101 Ben 's secret identity is revealed to the entire world , and he is now a superhero loved everywhere by kids and teenagers , but distrusted by many adults . Kevin and Gwen find out who revealed Ben 's secret and where he lives , and the three go to `` pay him a visit '' . The informant turns out to be a young boy named Jimmy Jones , who has followed Ben 's exploits ever since he was ten - years old . With Jimmy 's help , Ben and company discover a series of alien attacks in Florida . The unknown alien steals a nuclear device from a prototype interstellar rocket . They follow the alien to his ship , which he intends to launch using the nuke , which would destroy central Florida . Ben fights him as Spider - monkey , but proves to be too strong for him , so Ben turns into Ultimate Spidermonkey , with the Ultimatrix , defeating the alien with ease . Once defeated , the alien , Bivalvan , reveals he is from the Andromeda Galaxy who was kidnapped by an alien named Aggregor . He is left restrained , with assurance that the Plumbers will be along to bring him back home . Ben reluctantly returns to school with some encouragement from Julie . The students greet him with applause , including his old bullies Cash and JT . Meanwhile , Bivalvan is found and recaptured by Aggregor . Omnitrix alien debuts : Wildmutt ( 10 - year - old , Ultimate Alien debut ) Ultimatrix alien debuts : Swampfire ( Ultimate Alien debut ) , Brainstorm ( Ultimate Alien debut ) , Echo Echo ( Ultimate Alien debut ) , Jetray ( Ultimate Alien debut ) , Cannonbolt ( Ultimate Alien debut ) , Big Chill ( Ultimate Alien debut ) , Chromastone ( Ultimate Alien debut ) , Humungousaur ( Ultimate Alien debut ) , Goop ( Ultimate Alien debut ) , Spidermonkey ( Ultimate Alien debut ) , Rath ( Ultimate Alien debut ) , Ultimate Spidermonkey ( official debut ) `` Duped '' Butch Lukic Len Uhley April 30 , 2010 ( 2010 - 04 - 30 ) 102 After trashing a Plasma Beam Tank belonging to the Forever Knights , Ben decides he needs to be in three places at once : 1 ) go to Julie 's tennis game , 2 ) He has to fight the Forever Knights with Kevin , and 3 ) see the Sumo Slammers 3D movie . Using Echo Echo , he divides himself into three copies and transforms back into human form , creating three of himself . However , each is one part of his personality : one is logical , one is sensitive , and one is immature and insensitive . The sensitive Ben goes with Kevin to the museum , the insensitive Ben stays to watch Julie 's match , and the logical Ben goes to see Sumo Slammers . Insensitive Ben proceeds to embarrass Julie while sensitive Ben can not properly fight . When the Forever Knights steal a Aztec Battle Armor , Ben calls in his other selves for assistance , only to quickly realize that none of them are good fighters alone . He recombines into one and uses Lodestar to separate the armor , destroying it . Ben tries to apologize to Julie , which she almost accepts , until he admits he already went to see the Sumo Slammers movie when she suggests they go see it . Furious with Ben , Julie storms off with Gwen and Kevin right behind her leaving him alone to repent for what he has done in order to gain back their trust . Ultimatrix alien debuts : Upchuck ( Ultimate Alien debut ) , Lodestar ( Ultimate Alien debut ) `` Hit ' Em Where They Live '' Matt Youngberg Len Wein May 7 , 2010 ( 2010 - 05 - 07 ) 103 Ben 's enemies are targeting his parents now that he 's famous . Max , unable to deal with them alone following a fight with Sevenseven , has to enlist Ben 's aid . Vulkanus , Charmcaster , and Zombozo try to attack Ben 's dad , Carl , but Ben , Gwen , and Kevin intercept them . Realizing that , as a team , Ben and his friends are too strong to beat , Zombozo decides to `` divide and conquer '' . He kidnaps Ben 's mother , Sandra , knocking out Gwen who tried to protect her , and hides her in a carnival to lure the team out and separate them , but Ben and Kevin manage to beat Vulkanus and Charmcaster respectively , with Ben using Ultimate Big Chill . Gwen is left to fight Zombozo , and briefly uses her Anodite form to intimidate him into leaving the Tennyson family alone and to spread the word to every other villain . Ultimatrix alien debuts : Ultimate Big Chill ( official debut ) `` Video Games '' Dan Riba Eugene Son May 14 , 2010 ( 2010 - 05 - 14 ) 104 While Gwen and Kevin are fighting each other about bad driving teaching of Kevin , Ben 's celebrity status lands him in a starring role in a video game . Using motion capture technology , they record the moves of his various alien forms to integrate them into the game . In reality , however , the video game offer is a ruse by TV reporter Will Harangue and his assistant Oliver as part of his plan to create a robot to defeat Ben . After defeating Ben twice and trashing his reputation , Harangue challenges Ben to a final showdown on live TV . Unable to defeat the robot conventionally , Ben realizes what Harangue has done and uses Nanomech , the one alien he could n't get data on , to destroy the robot from within . Ultimatrix alien debuts : Four Arms ( 16 - year - old , Ultimate Alien debut ) , Nanomech ( Ultimate Alien debut ) , Way Big ( Ultimate Alien debut ) 5 5 `` Escape from Aggregor '' Butch Lukic Charlotte Fullerton May 21 , 2010 ( 2010 - 05 - 21 ) 105 A turtle - like alien is causing a rampage in Bellwood . After managing to draw Ben out , who uses Ultimate Big Chill against him , and once Gwen convinces them to use the translators in their badges , he explains that he determined this to be the easiest method of finding Ben . The alien , named Galapagus , tells of how he escaped from Aggregor alongside four other abducted aliens : Bivalvan , P'andor , Andreas and Ra'ad . Aggregor had taken them each from their own home worlds in a plot to permanently absorb all of their unique abilities . Though the aliens escaped from Aggregor 's spaceship , they crash - landed on Earth . After Ben 's Ultimatrix scans Galapagus ' DNA , he arranges for the Plumbers to get Galapagus back to his home planet . Unfortunately for Galapagus , Aggregor was impersonating the Plumber , and recaptures him . 6 6 `` Too Hot to Handle '' Matt Youngberg Marty Isenberg May 28 , 2010 ( 2010 - 05 - 28 ) 106 P'andor ( one of the aliens who were captured by Aggregor ) offers a huge cash reward to anyone who can break him out of his containment suit . Kevin decides to take the job , only to back out upon learning that P'andor is highly radioactive . Ben tries to stop them as Ultimate Humuongosaur , but he manages to escape . Since Kevin has the ability to open the suit using his Osmosian powers to absorb Taedenite , P'andor tricks him into cutting it open . Free from his containment , P'andor begins feeding on all the energy he can find , making his way to a nuclear power plant . Ben uses Ultimate Cannonbolt and with Kevin 's help is able to trap P'andor back inside his suit , and deliver him to a pair of Plumbers who offer to take him back to his home world . Unfortunately , Aggregor intercepts the Plumbers ' ship in space and recaptures P'andor . Ultimatrix alien debuts : Ultimate Humungousaur ( Ultimate Alien debut ) , Water Hazard ( official debut ) , Ultimate Cannonbolt ( official debut ) 7 7 `` Andreas ' Fault '' Dan Riba Ernie Altbacker and Jim Krieg June 4 , 2010 ( 2010 - 06 - 04 ) 107 When Ben , Kevin , and Gwen investigate an odd string of thefts by the Forever Knights , they learn that Argit is using Andreas ( one of the aliens who were captured by Aggregor ) to frighten the Forever Knights into making him their leader . Argit 's plans go bad when the Forever Knights eventually revolt ( under Sir Dagonet ) , and throw him into a dungeon with Ben and the others . When they discover that the Knights plan to execute Andreas , they break out and save him . As a last act of spite , Sir Dagonet sets a bomb that will destroy everything within five miles . Andreas sacrifices himself to absorb the force of the explosion . Although Ben and company believe him to be dead , Andreas survives and was recaptured by Aggregor . 8 8 `` Fused '' Butch Lukic Len Uhley June 11 , 2010 ( 2010 - 06 - 11 ) 108 After ambushing Ben at his house , Ra'ad ( one of the aliens who were captured by Aggregor ) after a short fight is thrown into a pool by Jetray . Electrocuted , he awakes in Los Selodad and blames Ben for letting Aggregor recapture the other four aliens . Aggregor has been tracking them through the Ultimatrix as a homing beacon each time it scans one of them . While trying to resist being scanned by the Ultimatrix , Ra'ad causes it to malfunction , trapping both his and Ben 's consciousnesses in the same body and turning off the Ultimatrix . When Aggregor comes to capture Ra'ad , Gwen uses a nonverbal teleportation spell after a brief fight . Despite Ra'ad's protests , Gwen and Kevin reactivate the Ultimatrix , and separate them . In doing so , they alert Aggregor to their location . Ra'ad flees , leaving the others to be wiped out by the Osmosian . After Kevin scolds Ra'ad for his cowardice , he decides to surrender himself to save Ben , and is recaptured by Aggregor . After the battle , Ben swears that he will do whatever it takes to save the captured aliens . Ultimatrix alien debuts : Ampfibian ( official debut ) 9 9 `` Hero Time '' Matt Youngberg Steven Barnes June 18 , 2010 ( 2010 - 06 - 18 ) 109 Ben saves actress Jennifer Nocturne from a group of thugs and she is immediately smitten with him , much to Julie 's chagrin . However , Ben 's only interest is in Captain Nemesis , Ben 's hero , who shows up moments after Ben defeats the thugs . Nemesis was actually responsible for hiring the thugs , having hoped to boost publicity by rescuing Jennifer . He tries again by releasing a group of dangerous robots led by Computron , only to be upstaged by Ben . After Ben casually comments on having defeated more of the robots than Nemesis , Will Harangue twists his comments into doubts about Nemesis ' abilities . Nemesis decides to hold a friendly test of skill between them , and Ben again comes out on top . Finally pushed to the edge , he captures Julie and Jennifer , daring Ben to try and save them . Ben rescues Julie and they get back together again , while leaving Jennifer to Kevin and Gwen , then defeats Nemesis ( now calling himself Overlord ) . Overlord is arrested , while Gwen is quick to discourage Jennifer from getting close to her most recent male rescuer . Will Harangue reports about Captain Nemesis ' actions stating that a good man did bad things in order to stop `` the menace that is Ben Tennyson . '' Ultimatrix alien debuts : Armodrillo ( official debut ) 10 10 `` Ultimate Aggregor '' Dan Riba Dwayne McDuffie October 10 , 2010 ( 2010 - 10 - 10 ) 110 With all five aliens in his possession , Aggregor tries to return to his home world , Osmos 5 , to absorb all of their abilities . But a Plumber ambush damages his ship , so he instead heads for Los Soledad in order to use Paradox 's time machine as an alternate power source . Despite Ben , Kevin , Gwen , and Grandpa Max 's best efforts , Aggregor succeeds in absorbing the aliens ' forms and powers , turning himself into an unstoppable amalgam of the quintet : Ultimate Aggregor . Ultimatrix alien debuts : Ultimate Swampfire ( Ultimate Alien debut ) 11 11 `` Map of Infinity '' Butch Lukic Dwayne McDuffie October 10 , 2010 ( 2010 - 10 - 10 ) 111 With his new powers , Aggregor easily defeats Ben and his friends . Azmuth tells Ben that Aggregor intends to steal the Map of Infinity , a complete map of the entire universe . With it , he 'll be able to find the Forge of Creation , the birthplace of the universe . He further explains that Aggregor stole the five aliens ' powers to protect him from the traps guarding the map , which was split into four pieces by Professor Paradox . In order to keep him from assembling the map , the team tries to take the first piece of the Map of Infinity first , which is at Mykdl'dy ( A Necrofriggian ( Big Chill 's species ) colony world made entirely of fire and ice . After a battle with the Necrofriggian guards , they go through the temple that houses the piece , getting past the traps , but are unable to retrieve the piece after Ben ( as Fourarms ) and Kevin are holding a door up , and Gwen is knocked out by a poison spike . Aggregor appears and thanks them for disabling the traps for him , and in a boost of anger , Ben holds the door himself , allowing them to escape . Ultimatrix alien debuts : Ultimate Echo Echo ( official debut ) 12 12 `` Reflected Glory '' Matt Youngberg Peter David October 15 , 2010 ( 2010 - 10 - 15 ) 112 Ben 's childhood bullies , Cash and J.T. start a TV show with Oliver ( who was fired by Will Harangue after what happened in `` Video Games '' ) as their cameraman , in which they claim to be the brains behind Ben 's success as a hero . Ben , Gwen , and Kevin agree to play along after a sob story from the duo . Monitoring the broadcast , Vilgax 's former assistant Psyphon is convinced the boys are responsible for his master 's defeat and decides to kill them . During a mission to recover a Power Decoupler from the Forever Knights , Psyphon attacks , having augmented his abilities with Vilgax 's technology and unleashes some R.E.D.s ( Robotic Extermination Devices ) . Cash and JT are forced to admit their duplicity on camera to save themselves , so Psyphon turns his attention back to Ben . Ben can not overcome him , even as Ultimate Spidermonkey , so Cash gets the idea to use the Power Decoupler on Psyphon , draining his power . Ben then knocks him out . Unfortunately for the duo , their act of heroism goes unnoticed , the weapon having knocked out the camera before firing , and their earlier confession has alienated their fanbase . Oliver leaves telling the boys that the show is over . Ultimatrix alien debuts : Terraspin ( official debut ) 13 13 `` Deep '' Dan Riba Marty Isenberg October 22 , 2010 ( 2010 - 10 - 22 ) 113 Ben , Gwen , and Kevin travel to the water world of Pisces ( Ripjaws ' home planet ) after finding out that Aggregor is on the planet . Aided by Magister Pyke , they travel to the planet 's core , which contains a gravitational multiplier holding the water planet together . Aggregor steals the device , which is actually a disguised piece of the Map of Infinity , and escapes , causing the inhabitants to mistake Ben , Gwen , and Kevin as the thieves . To save the planet from floating into space , Ben transforms into Goop and uses his Anti-Gravity Multiplier as a replacement . Goop is atomized into the water of the planet , allowing him to draw all the lost water back in . With Pisces back to normal and their ship repaired , Ben , Gwen , and Kevin return to Earth . 14 14 `` Where the Magic Happens '' Butch Lukic Matt Wayne October 29 , 2010 ( 2010 - 10 - 29 ) 114 Gwen , Ben , and Kevin follow Aggregor into a mystical inter-dimension full magic and mana called Legerdomain with the help of Charmcaster , who was born there . They believe Aggregor 's target to be the Alpha Rune worn by Addwaitya , ruler of Legerdomain , which they suspect is a disguised piece of the Map of Infinity . Gwen and Charmcaster work together several times , and the two develop a bond that seems to lead to Charmcaster changing her ways . While the group tries to steal the Alpha Rune , Aggregor uses the distraction to knock Addwaitya out and take it himself . Gwen , Ben , and Kevin escape Legerdomain with Charmcaster 's help , but Charmcaster stays behind to free Legerdomain and her people from Addwaitya 's rule . Ben promises Gwen that they will find a way to return and help Charmcaster after Aggregor is defeated . 15 15 `` Perplexahedron '' Matt Youngberg Brian Swenlin November 5 , 2010 ( 2010 - 11 - 05 ) 115 Azmuth was upset at Ben 's failure to protect the first three pieces of the Map of Infinity , teleports Ben , Gwen , and Kevin to the fourth piece 's location : a deadly artificial planet known as Perplexhahedron , created by Professor Paradox to destroy anyone who enters it . Ben , Gwen , and Kevin manage to fight their way through the traps . They are separated , and Gwen encounters Aggregor , but he simply ignores and leaves her in a freezing room . After that , Ben and Kevin accidentally find her there , then Gwen and Kevin kiss . They reach the Sentinel , who gives them the final piece . When the piece is taken , the whole planet starts to fall apart . The Sentinel stays behind , content that he has fulfilled his purpose in life , but Ben insists on rescuing him . However , Aggregor has found the Sentinel by the time Ben returns , and in the ensuing battle manages to take the final piece of the map from Ben , because he carried it back with him and dropped it . After getting back to the ship , the Sentinel , dismayed that his life amounted to nothing , vanishes into thin air . Though they 've lost the battle , Kevin assures Ben that the war is n't over . Ultimatrix alien debuts : Ripjaws ( Ultimate Alien debut ) 16 16 `` The Forge of Creation '' Dan Riba Dwayne McDuffie November 12 , 2010 ( 2010 - 11 - 12 ) 116 Azmuth is still upset with Ben , Gwen , and Kevin for letting Aggregor get all of the four pieces of the Map of Infinity . Ben resolves to become Alien X to get Bellicus and Serena to cooperate . When this fails , Paradox arrives and changes Alien X back to Ben . After a brief argument , Paradox and Azmuth explain that the Forge of Creation is where all Celestialsapiens ( Alien X 's race ) are born , and Aggregor hopes to absorb the powers and abilities of a newborn Celestialsapien and become omnipotent . Paradox takes them to the Forge of Creation , where an accident pulls Ben 's ten - year - old self out of the timestream . After a few difficulties , past - Ben teams up with his future self to stop Aggregor . As they make their way through the Forge , they discover many Celestialsapiens in debate with themselves , and eventually a Celestialsapien egg . Aggregor reaches the egg at the same time the group does and takes everyone out with ease . In a last - ditch effort , Kevin absorbs energy from present - Ben 's Ultimatrix , but the process drives him insane once again . He is now mutated like his old self , but has the new aliens instead of the old ones , becoming Ultimate Kevin . Kevin easily defeats Aggregor before absorbing his stolen power and attempting to kill him , only to be met with opposition from Gwen and both Bens . Past - Ben manages to get through to Kevin , who spares Aggregor 's life before flying away , claiming he will not be so merciful next time . Paradox arrives at that moment to take them home before the other Celestialsapiens wake up , since he is not supposed to be near them , and return past - Ben to his own time period . Paradox claims that past - Ben will dismiss the entire experience as a dream while present - day Ben resolves to stop Kevin . Omnitrix alien debuts : Heatblast ( 10 - year - old , Ultimate Alien debut ) , Four Arms ( 10 - year - old ) , Stinkfly ( Ultimate Alien debut ) Ultimatrix alien debuts : Alien X ( Ultimate Alien debut ) , NRG ( official debut ) 17 17 `` ... Nor Iron Bars a Cage '' Butch Lukic Len Wein November 19 , 2010 ( 2010 - 11 - 19 ) 117 With Kevin having absorbed the Ultimatrix 's aliens and gone back to his insane state , he returns back to the Null Void prison , Incarcecon . Ben and Gwen , searching for answers , realize they have to go to Incarcecon in an attempt to stop Kevin from killing the warden , Morgg . There are also flashbacks that Kevin has , how he left his first mutation and started to absorb solid matter both with the help of a fellow inmate named Kwarrel , and showed how he escaped from the prison , with Kwarrel sacrificing himself to Morgg in the process . Ben and Gwen soon realize that Morgg is forcing the prisoners to mine a blue substance which is sold as a hallucinogenic drug . Kevin manages to catch up with Morgg to exact his revenge , dropping him in an elevator and cutting the line . Gwen saves him and take him into custody , but by the time they hit surface , the prison is in ruins . Kevin fled the prison , and Ben thinks that Kevin may have to be put down , much to Gwen 's shock and horror . 18 18 `` The Enemy of My Enemy '' Matt Youngberg Len Uhley December 3 , 2010 ( 2010 - 12 - 03 ) 118 Argit travels to Earth to borrow supplies from Kevin for a scam , where he discovers Kevin 's condition and is nearly killed by the insane and vengeful Ultimate Kevin . Ben and Gwen send Argit to the Plumber 's Academy to protect him from Kevin . While there Argit meets up with the Vreedle brothers ( this particular set is training to be Plumbers to avoid being assassinated by their father again ) , where he explains that their father sent him there to rig their grades . Kevin then goes to the Plumber 's Academy to kill Argit . Ben battles Kevin but can not defeat him . Rhomboid then launches a nuclear fission bomb , which will destroy the Academy and everyone in it , but Ben uses Ultimate Echo - Echo to destroy the bomb . Kevin attacks Argit and seemingly kills him . When Gwen tries to stop Kevin , he attacks her , but does not kill her because of what she used to mean to him , suggesting there is hope for him still . After Kevin leaves , Ben reveals Argit is simply pretending to be dead ( as his species can temporarily stop their pulse ) and Argit is arrested by the Vreedle Brothers by the order of Magister Colonach . 19 19 `` Absolute Power , Part One '' Dan Riba Charlotte Fullerton December 10 , 2010 ( 2010 - 12 - 10 ) 119 After Kevin absorbs the powers and abilities of Alan , Helen , Manny , Pierce , and Dr. Viktor , Ben and Gwen argue about the best way to deal with him . Ben decides to kill him , while Gwen argues that Kevin can still be saved . The argument escalates into a heated battle between the two first - cousins , which Ben wins as Way Big using an incredibly strong and powerful cosmic ray attack . He then starts looking for Kevin , attacking anyone who has ever had any criminal connections with him , including the Forever Knights and Vulkanus . Gwen , looking for an alternative , tracks down Darkstar . She convinces Darkstar to help Kevin , and in return , she gives him enough mana to retain his normal appearance for one year . Together with a newly matured Cooper , Darkstar devises a plan to save Kevin using a fragment of the Dominus Librium . He and Cooper build a machine in Los Soledad , using the left over pieces of both Aggregor 's matter energy converting device , and Professor Paradox 's time machine , to strengthen and amplify the piece 's energy - draining abilities , thus restoring Kevin 's sanity . Darkstar also devises a plan to have Kevin absorb a fraction of Gwen 's magical and Anodite abilities so that he will hunt her for more . 20 20 `` Absolute Power , Part Two '' Butch Lukic Dwayne McDuffie December 10 , 2010 ( 2010 - 12 - 10 ) 120 The first part of the plan is a success , but Cooper and Darkstar need more time to finish the machine , so Ben recruits his remaining allies , Grandpa Max , Julie , and Ship , to help hold him off . After a long standoff , Ben is able to use Ultimate Echo Echo to finally subdue Kevin and hook him into the completed machine . The machine restores an exhausted Kevin to normal . Suddenly , Darkstar uses the machine to drain the powers and abilities from Kevin into himself , glowing with almightly god - like power . Predicting this outcome in advance , Ben hits a kill switch on the machine that takes all the stolen powers from Darkstar , and gives them back to their rightful owners , in the process of returning Bivalvan , Galapagus , P'andor , Andreas , and Ra'ad to life . Ra'ad thanks them . Kevin and Gwen kiss . Then Kevin apologizes to Ben for his actions , and offers him a ride to Mr. Smoothie 's to get a smoothie .