Normal Accident and HRO theorists agreed that interactive complexity and tight coupling can , theoretically , lead to a system accident . However , they hold different opinions on whether those system accidents are inevitable or are manageable . Serious accidents in high risk , hazardous operations can be prevented through a combination of organizational design , culture , management , and human choice . Theorists of both schools place a lot of emphasis on human interaction with the system as either cause ( NAT ) or prevention ( HRO ) of a systems accident . High reliability organization theory and HROs are often contrasted against Charles Perrow 's Normal Accident Theory ( NAT ) ( see Sagan for a comparison of HRO and NAT ) . NAT represents Perrow 's attempt to translate his understanding of the disaster at Three Mile Island nuclear facility into a more general formulation of accidents and disasters . Perrow 's 1984 book also included chapters on petrochemical plants , aviation accidents , naval accidents , `` earth - based system '' accidents ( dam breaks , earthquakes ) , and `` exotic '' accidents ( genetic engineering , military operations , and space flight ) . At Three Mile Island the technology was tightly coupled due to time - dependent processes , invariant sequences , and limited slack . The events that spread through this technology were invisible concatenations that were impossible to anticipate and cascaded in an interactively complex manner . Perrow hypothesized that regardless of the effectiveness of management and operations , accidents in systems that are characterized by tight coupling and interactive complexity will be normal or inevitable as they often can not be foreseen or prevented . This pessimistic view , described by some theorists as unashamedly technologically deterministic , contrasts with the more optimistic view of HRO proponents , who argued that high - risk , high - hazard organizations can function safely despite the hazards of complex systems . Despite their differences , NAT and high reliability organization theory share a focus on the social and organizational underpinnings of system safety and accident causation / prevention.As research continued , a body of knowledge emerged based on the studying a variety of organizations . For example , fire incident command system , Loma Linda Hospital 's Pediatric Intensive Care Unit , and the California Independent System Operator were all studied as examples of HROs .