Prescription Only Medication ( POM ) , which are legally available only with a valid prescription from a prescriber . A pharmacist has to be on the premises for POM medicines to be dispensed , required by law . The medicine has been specifically prescribed for the patient holding the prescription , so it is considered safe for only the recipient to take . Just a small example of these include most antibiotics and all antidepressants or antidiabetic medications . Drugs included as POM are high - strength painkillers such as oxycodone and tramadol , medications such as sildenafil ( Viagra ) and diazepam ( Valium ) , and certain topical preparations such as corticosteroids . These medicines are often sold by drug dealers , especially those marked as `` CD POM , '' which are controlled due to abuse risk such as dipipanone , temazepam , and methadone . General Sales List ( GSL ) , available off the shelf with no pharmacy training required to sell ( so they can be sold anywhere , such as supermarkets ) . In general , they are considered safe for most people when taken correctly . Examples of these include 16 - packs ( or less ) of painkillers such as paracetamol and ibuprofen as well as a host of other safe medications such as small pack sizes of antiallergy tablets , laxative medication , and skin creams . Pharmacy Medicines ( P ) are medicines which are legally neither a POM or GSL medication . These can be sold from a registered pharmacy but should not be available for self - selection ( although directions to discuss a ' P ' product may be allocated shelf space with associated GSL items ) . ' P ' medications are reserved from the GSL list as they are either associated with a need for advice on use , or used in conditions which may require referral to a medical prescriber . Suitable trained counter assistants may sell a ' P ' medication under the supervision of a pharmacist and will ask questions to determine if the customer needs to be referred for a discussion with a pharmacist . Some ' POM ' medicines are available for use in certain situations and doses as ' P ' medicines .