The Rehnquist Court 's Commerce Clause jurisprudence restored limits to the Interstate Commerce Clause that were removed in post-New Deal decisions , based primarily on concerns of federalism and encroachment by Congress on the several States ' police powers . It upheld Congress 's plenary authority to legislate in Indian affairs that was derived from the Worcester decision 's interpretation of the Indian Commerce Clause , but modified Worcester by giving the several states some jurisdiction over Indian affairs beyond what had been granted to them by Congress . Another view is that the Court was compelled to define limits to address Congressional legislation which sought to use the Interstate Commerce Clause power in new and unprecedented ways . In United States v. Lopez , the Court confronted conviction of a 12th Grade student for carrying a concealed handgun into school in violation of the Gun - Free School Zones Act of 1990 , 18 U.S.C. ยง 922 ( q ) ( 1 ) ( A ) . The Gun - Free School Zones Act made it a federal offense for any individual knowingly to possess a firearm at a place that individual knows or has reasonable cause to believe is a school zone . The legislation posed several challenging problems for Commerce Clause jurisprudence . Education is a traditionally local government activity , and while education undoubtedly has an economic aspect , the nexus between regulating gun violence and the Commerce Clause power to regulate interstate commerce seems particularly strained . In Wickard v. Filburn , the Court ruled Congress was exercising its Commerce Clause power to regulate local economic activity in ways that the States were powerless to regulate , because only the federal government could effectively control the national wheat supply . The Court reasoned that if Wickard could be applied to acts of gun violence , simply because crime impaired education , Congress might conclude that crime in schools substantially affects commerce , and may be regulated . Under this logic , all police power could be nationalized and local police and criminal courts eliminated on the theory that all crime affects commerce .