The `` Maragha Revolution '' refers to the Maragha school 's revolution against Ptolemaic astronomy . The `` Maragha school '' was an astronomical tradition beginning in the Maragha observatory and continuing with astronomers from the Damascus mosque and Samarkand observatory . Like their Andalusian predecessors , the Maragha astronomers attempted to solve the equant problem ( the circle around whose circumference a planet or the center of an epicycle was conceived to move uniformly ) and produce alternative configurations to the Ptolemaic model without abandoning geocentrism . They were more successful than their Andalusian predecessors in producing non-Ptolemaic configurations which eliminated the equant and eccentrics , were more accurate than the Ptolemaic model in numerically predicting planetary positions , and were in better agreement with empirical observations . The most important of the Maragha astronomers included Mo'ayyeduddin Urdi ( d . 1266 ) , Nas카r al - D카n al - T큰s카 ( 1201 -- 1274 ) , Qutb al - Din al - Shirazi ( 1236 -- 1311 ) , Ibn al - Shatir ( 1304 -- 1375 ) , Ali Qushji ( c. 1474 ) , Al - Birjandi ( d . 1525 ) , and Shams al - Din al - Khafri ( d . 1550 ) . Ibn al - Shatir , the Damascene astronomer ( 1304 -- 1375 AD ) working at the Umayyad Mosque , wrote a major book entitled Kitab Nihayat al - Sul fi Tashih al - Usul ( A Final Inquiry Concerning the Rectification of Planetary Theory ) on a theory which departs largely from the Ptolemaic system known at that time . In his book , Ibn al - Shatir , an Arab astronomer of the fourteenth century , E.S. Kennedy wrote `` what is of most interest , however , is that Ibn al - Shatir 's lunar theory , except for trivial differences in parameters , is identical with that of Copernicus ( 1473 -- 1543 AD ) . '' The discovery that the models of Ibn al - Shatir are mathematically identical to those of Copernicus suggests the possible transmission of these models to Europe . At the Maragha and Samarkand observatories , the Earth 's rotation was discussed by al - Tusi and Ali Qushji ( b . 1403 ) ; the arguments and evidence they used resemble those used by Copernicus to support the Earth 's motion .