No . overall No. in season Title Directed by Written by Original air date Prod . code U.S. viewers ( millions ) 52 `` Coopers on the Run '' Rosario Roveto , Jr . Robbie Countryman Rob Lotterstein July 7 , 2017 ( 2017 - 07 - 07 ) 301 -- 302 1.24 K.C. , Marisa and the rest of the Coopers flee to a safe house in Rio de Janeiro after Zane and his men target them . After two weeks in the safe house -- a run - down apartment -- K.C. , Ernie and Marisa go into the city to contact The Organization . While in the city , Ernie meets Zoe , a young woman from Kansas who likes him . However , K.C. is suspicious of Zoe and ends their conversation as the Coopers are not to speak to anyone because of the possibility that Zane could be tracking them . K.C. contacts The Organization and learns that Zane is unaware of their whereabouts . K.C. then signs up the family for a mission to capture Passaro Grande , a local smuggler of exotic birds . After capturing Grande , Craig , Kira and Judy take him to the local authorities while K.C. , Ernie and Marisa return to the safe house . A strong enemy agent named Sheena , who frequently talks to herself , breaks into the safe house and reveals that she was sent by Zane to kill them . After fighting K.C. and Ernie , Zoe breaks in and knocks out Sheena . Zoe reveals that she is an agent for The Organization who was assigned to protect the family . The group gets into a vehicle to head to a safe location , but K.C. must take a detour through the jungle after learning that Sheena is following them . The next day , Sheena locates the group and incapacitates Ernie , Marisa and Zoe with a small device that electrocutes them . K.C. and Sheena prepare to battle . Special guest star : China Anne McClain as Sheena Guest stars : Francois Chau as Zane , Haley Tju as Zoe 53 `` Welcome to the Jungle '' Robbie Countryman Rob Lotterstein July 14 , 2017 ( 2017 - 07 - 14 ) 303 1.06 During battle , K.C. tosses a Brazilian jumping spider on Sheena to paralyze her . Ernie , Marisa and Zoe regain consciousness and discover that K.C. has also been paralyzed by the spider . They leave Sheena behind and carry K.C. through the jungle . Zoe eventually makes an antidote for K.C. out of jungle vegetation and snake saliva . Meanwhile , Marisa is upset that today is school picture day and she is not there to have her picture taken . Marisa wanted a yearbook picture to remember the fact that she became a high school senior despite her poor grades . After wandering through the jungle , Craig , Kira and Judy find Sheena , who claims to be Zoe . They then find K.C. and the others . K.C. and Zoe apprehend Sheena , and Marisa and the Coopers later board a helicopter . During the flight , Zane reveals himself to be the pilot . Zane destroys the helicopter controls and parachutes out while the helicopter spirals out of control toward the ocean . Special guest star : China Anne McClain as Sheena Guest stars : Francois Chau as Zane , Haley Tju as Zoe 54 `` Out of the Water and into the Fire '' Robbie Countryman Rob Lotterstein July 14 , 2017 ( 2017 - 07 - 14 ) TBA 1.20 K.C. manages to land the helicopter safely in the ocean , and Marisa and the Coopers are rescued by a nearby military ship . The captain apprehends them after discovering that Judy is a robot , as he does not believe that the Coopers are spies and he has never heard of The Organization . Marisa and the Coopers escape from their cell after using Judy 's skeleton key . The Coopers return to Organization headquarters , where they discover a memorial service being held for them . The Coopers decide to keep their survival a secret to increase their chances of capturing Zane ; they recruit Kira 's parents , Othello and Gayle , so they can work together . Disguising her voice as Brett , Judy arranges to meet Zane at a laser tag facility , where K.C. and her family ambush him . After battling with real laser guns , Zane is apprehended , and K.C. declares that they no longer have to worry about The Other Side , unaware that a new enemy organization known as The Alternate has been formed . Guest stars : Sherri Shepherd as Beverly , Roz Ryan as Grandma Gayle , Charlie Robinson as Pops , Francois Chau as Zane , Rick Hall as Agent Johnson , James McCauley as Captain 55 `` Web of Lies '' Robbie Countryman Darin Henry July 28 , 2017 ( 2017 - 07 - 28 ) 305 1.48 K.C. is upset to learn that she has received the same SAT score as Marisa : 1060 . K.C. later learns that Beverly had Craig change her SAT result because she received a perfect score . Less than one percent of the population receives a perfect score ; leaving the original score intact would draw unnecessary attention to K.C. , putting her spy career at risk . K.C. disagrees with Beverly 's decision as it will prevent her from being accepted into certain colleges . Beverly tells K.C. that The Organization wants her to remain a spy rather than go to college . K.C. drives to New York to retake her SAT test , while Ernie and Zoe team up for a mission to stop smugglers who are working in a party supplies warehouse . After completing the mission , Ernie asks Zoe to be his girlfriend , but she tells him that she has been assigned to a four - year mission in Antarctica . Ernie agrees to wait for Zoe until she concludes her mission . Meanwhile , Marisa wants K.C. to talk to The Organization about letting her become a spy . Marisa is insulted when K.C. tells her that she is not intelligent enough to be a spy . K.C. later tells Marisa that it would be better if she attended college rather than become a spy . Marisa , who does not want to attend college , becomes further upset at K.C. and decides to temporarily end their friendship . Two months later , K.C. learns that she has received a perfect SAT score . Guest stars : Sherri Shepherd as Beverly , Haley Tju as Zoe 56 5 `` Teen Drama '' Robbie Countryman David Tolentino August 4 , 2017 ( 2017 - 08 - 04 ) 306 1.02 Marisa , who is still upset at K.C. for not allowing her to join The Organization , befriends a student named Brady , who says that he is part of The Organization . Brady tells Marisa that The Organization has been impressed with her for a while as she helped to capture the leader of The Other Side . Brady recruits Marisa as a spy for The Organization . Meanwhile , K.C. misses spending time with Marisa . Ernie invites his fellow Model UN member , Monique , to the Cooper house to spend time with her , but he becomes upset at K.C. for befriending Monique and disrupting his plan to be with her . K.C. realizes that spending time with Monique is not the same as being with Marisa . Brady assigns Marisa to befriend K.C. , who he says could be providing intelligence to The Other Side . Marisa befriends K.C. again so she can learn whether she is working with The Other Side . Guest stars : Connor Weil as Brady , Chandler Kinney as Monique Absent : Kadeem Hardison as Craig Cooper 57 6 `` K.C. Under Construction '' Eileen Conn Jenn Lloyd & Kevin Bonani August 11 , 2017 ( 2017 - 08 - 11 ) 307 1.18 K.C. is assigned to go undercover as a construction worker at a tall unfinished building , allowing her to spy on a nearby tower where a group of renegade spies are believed to be meeting so they can discuss weapons . K.C. 's male co-workers at the construction site mock her for being a female . K.C. meets a female construction worker , Crystal , who tells K.C. that the men will eventually ignore her . K.C. later learns that the renegade spy group is working on sonic brain imploders , capable of melting people 's brains . When Brady has Marisa gain knowledge about K.C. 's current mission , he warns his group that K.C. is spying on them and that she must be killed . A man is sent to the construction site to plant a brain imploder device . After a fight , K.C. takes down the man , but he says he does not know how to diffuse the imploder . Crystal has K.C. put the imploder into cement mix , which prevents it from detonating . Meanwhile , Judy gets in trouble at school after using mature logic to question a student 's belief in the tooth fairy . Ernie is tasked with teaching Judy to behave like a normal child , to help maintain her cover as a spy robot . Guest stars : Rick Hall as Agent Johnson , Connor Weil as Brady , Lex Medlin as Roy , Eris Baker as Diane , Tara Karsian as Crystal , Larry Poindexter as Foreman Absent : Tammy Townsend as Kira Cooper , Kadeem Hardison as Craig Cooper 58 7 `` The Storm Maker '' Robbie Countryman Jenn Lloyd & Kevin Bonani August 18 , 2017 ( 2017 - 08 - 18 ) 308 1.30 Ernie and Marisa mock K.C. , believing that she does not have a date for their final high school homecoming . On the night of the homecoming , K.C. goes on a mission to retrieve a weather - altering device known as the Storm Maker , which the remaining members of The Other Side plan to use to create man - made weather disasters . K.C. retrieves the device and hides it in her school locker , where she plans to keep it while she attends the homecoming . K.C. has Howard , a gadget inventor for The Organization , pose as her date at homecoming , telling him that it is actually practice so he can become a field agent . Marisa attends homecoming with Brady , while Ernie goes with Monique . Brady learns about the Storm Maker through Marisa after having her casually question K.C. about her latest mission . Brady , who is working for The Alternate , steals the device and places it in his locker , then deletes security footage of his theft before K.C. and Ernie can learn who took the device . Meanwhile , Craig and Judy attend a father - daughter dance at her school . Guest stars : Rick Hall as Agent Johnson , Connor Weil as Brady , Matthew Gold as Howard , Chandler Kinney as Monique Absent : Tammy Townsend as Kira Cooper 59 8 `` Keep on Truckin ' '' Jon Rosenbaum Darin Henry August 25 , 2017 ( 2017 - 08 - 25 ) TBA 1.20 K.C. and Craig discover that the Storm Maker device can not be powered without a rare chemical known as Dilithium . They go undercover as workers at a truck stop restaurant so they can obtain the Dilithium from a truck that is delivering it . Meanwhile , Ernie gives Judy an emotion upgrade to increase her mental sensitivity , to help her maintain her cover as a real child . At school , Ernie overhears Brady during a phone conversation and discovers that he is an enemy agent . Brady uses memory spray to erase Ernie 's recent memory . Marisa visits the house to ask Ernie questions regarding K.C. 's latest mission . Ernie then overhears Marisa talking to Brady on a cellular phone , and learns that she is a spy . Marisa erases his recent memories with memory spray . At the truck stop , the driver of the Dilithium truck walks inside for lunch , allowing K.C. to obtain the chemicals . Brady , wearing a ski mask , takes the Dilithium and hijacks the truck . K.C. attempts to take control of the truck , and scratches part of Brady 's face through the mask opening , before falling off the truck . Later , K.C. meets Marisa and Brady at a restaurant , and notices the scratch marks on his face . Although he says the marks came from a cat , K.C. realizes that Brady was the truck hijacker . Guest stars : Rick Hall as Agent Johnson , James DiGiacomo as Petey , Connor Weil as Brady Absent : Tammy Townsend as Kira Cooper 60 9 `` Unmasking the Enemy '' Jon Rosenbaum Rob Lotterstein November 3 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 03 ) 310 1.37 K.C. suspects that Brady has been spying on her through a necklace that he gave Marisa , who is unaware of Brady 's Storm Maker theft . K.C. believes the necklace is bugged , so she creates a plan to trick and catch Brady . K.C. tells Marisa , who is wearing the necklace , that The Organization has created a device called the Rain Coat , capable of stopping the Storm Maker . K.C. also says that she will be dropping off the plans for the device -- which is actually fictitious -- in an alley later that night , with the hope that Brady will arrive there to steal them . A masked man from The Alternate arrives to intercept the plans , but he is knocked out by K.C. , who realizes that the man is not Brady . Three additional masked men arrive , including Brady , but they are forced away when Marisa arrives and threatens them with a laser gun . Meanwhile , Kira is about to enjoy a day off when Lori , an agent of The Organization , drops off her baby at the Coopers ' house so she can go on a last - minute mission . Kira then puts Judy in charge of watching the baby , claiming that she has to go on a last - minute mission . Kira actually gets a massage and has her nails done , while Judy is unable to stop the baby from crying . Guest stars : Connor Weil as Brady , Ego Nwodim as Agent McKenzie 61 10 `` The Truth Will Set You Free '' Jon Rosenbaum Eileen Conn November 10 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 10 ) 311 1.34 Agent Johnson puts the Coopers in charge of collecting information on Brady . K.C. arranges a job interview for Marisa to become a junior agent - in - training for The Organization , which leads Marisa to question Brady , who had already told her that she was a junior agent . After being questioned , Brady eventually reveals to Marisa that he is a member of The Alternate . Brady also reveals that he has hours of audio footage in which Marisa states that K.C. may have become a rogue agent and agrees to work with him to take her down . Brady blackmails Marisa to continue spying on K.C. , or else he will release the audio footage and get her imprisoned for treason against the United States . Marisa confesses to K.C. that she has been spying for Brady , and K.C. discovers that Marisa 's necklace was never bugged . When unusual weather begins occurring around the world , the Coopers realize that the Storm Maker has been activated , so they instruct Marisa to gain information from Brady about the device . When Marisa fails , K.C. goes in disguise as Marisa and confronts Brady , who kidnaps and takes her to The Alternate 's headquarters , as she planned . Meanwhile , Ernie wants to drive by Monique 's house in his father 's 1969 classic muscle car , but he crashes it before getting out of the driveway , scraping away the paint on one of the doors . Judy makes the situation worse by repainting the door a different color and then removing the paint entirely . Ernie and Judy blame the damage on The Alternate , but Craig does not believe them . Guest stars : Rick Hall as Agent Johnson , Connor Weil as Brady , Riley Litman as Reid 62 11 `` Stormy Weather '' Jon Rosenbaum Darin Henry November 17 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 17 ) 312 1.38 At The Alternate 's headquarters , K.C. comes out of disguise and escapes from a room where she had been locked up . K.C. frees an imprisoned scientist named Gwen , who leads her through the building in search of the Storm Maker , but Gwen later reveals she is part of The Alternate . Brady , Gwen , and Alternate member Reid plan to use the Storm Maker to have a massive storm hit the Capitol Building during the State of the Union address . Craig and Kira drive to the Capitol to warn people , but they encounter heavy rain and hail . Marisa enters The Alternate 's headquarters to help K.C. , and they rush to the rooftop to destroy the Storm Maker 's transmitter . After a brawl with Brady , K.C. destroys the transmitter with a laser gun . Brady escapes by parachuting off the rooftop , and Marisa decides that she does not want to interview to become a spy because of the hard work required by the job . Guest stars : Rick Hall as Agent Johnson , Connor Weil as Brady , Riley Litman as Reid , Christine Rodriguez as Gwen Absent : Trinitee Stokes as Judy Cooper 63 12 `` Deleted ! '' Kadeem Hardison Jenn Lloyd & Kevin Bonani November 24 , 2017 ( 2017 - 11 - 24 ) TBA 1.09 Judy 's memory is almost full , which requires her to visit The Organization to have her video footage downloaded . The Coopers realize that Judy has recorded everything they have done , including things that could get them excluded from The Organization again . The family decides to delete Judy 's incriminating videos , including footage showing that Marisa knows about the family being spies . After reminiscing through old footage , Craig deletes several videos , including important footage from their recent circus mission . When the family discovers that the circus footage can not be recovered , they worry about how Agent Johnson will react to them tampering with evidence . Ernie suggests reenacting the circus mission in their house and filming it to cover for the deletion of the real footage , which leads the family to reminisce through old videos about his previous bad ideas . The family also watches other old videos , until Agent Johnson arrives at the house to pick up Judy . The family hides Judy and convinces Johnson that she has already left to visit The Organization for the memory download . Afterwards , Judy expresses sorrow that her videos will need to be downloaded and removed , as they serve as her memories . Ernie devises a solution to back up Judy 's video footage to a separate hard drive so they can be reinstalled onto Judy after she downloads them for The Organization . Guest star : Rick Hall as Agent Johnson 64 13 `` Second Chances '' TBA TBA January 15 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 15 ) TBA TBD 65 14 `` Revenge of the Van People '' TBA TBA January 16 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 16 ) TBA TBD 66 15 `` The Gammy Files '' TBA TBA January 17 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 17 ) TBA TBD 67 16 `` Take Me Out '' TBA TBA January 18 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 18 ) TBA TBD 68 17 `` Twin It to Win It '' TBA TBA January 22 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 22 ) TBA TBD 69 18 `` Cassandra Undercover '' TBA TBA January 23 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 23 ) TBA TBD 70 19 `` K.C. Times Three '' TBA TBA January 24 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 24 ) TBA TBD 71 20 `` The Domino Effect '' TBA TBA January 29 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 29 ) TBA TBD 72 21 `` Domino 2 : Barbecued '' TBA TBA January 30 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 30 ) TBA TBD 73 22 `` Domino 3 : Buggin ' Out '' TBA TBA January 31 , 2018 ( 2018 - 01 - 31 ) TBA TBD 74 23 `` Domino 4 : The Mask '' TBA TBA February 1 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 01 ) TBA TBD 75 24 `` K.C. Undercover : The Final Chapter '' TBA TBA February 2 , 2018 ( 2018 - 02 - 02 ) TBA TBD