Identification of need and requirements analysis is an internal step that involves an understanding of business objectives by establishing a short term strategy ( three to five years ) for overall spend category followed by defining the technical direction and requirements . External macro-level market analysis : Once an organization understands its requirements , it should look outward to assess the overall marketplace . A key part of a market analysis is understanding the overall competitiveness of the marketplace and trends that are likely to impact the organization . Cost analysis is the accumulation , examination and manipulation of cost data for comparisons and projections . A cost analysis is important to help an organization make a make - buy decision . Supplier identification includes identifying particular suppliers that can provide the required product or services . There are many sources to search for potential suppliers . One good source is trade shows . Modern procurement software often incorporates a supplier catalog for standardized goods and services . Non-disclosure agreement ( NDA ) : It is quite normal to request vendors to sign an NDA prior to engaging with them . This protects the organisation where sensitive information is shared with multiple potential vendors ahead of releasing detailed requirements which often point to strategic decisions a firm has taken . Supplier communication : When one or more suitable suppliers have been identified , an organization will typically conduct a competitive bidding process . Organizations can use a variety of competitive bidding methods including requests for quotation , requests for proposals , requests for information , requests for tender , request for solution or a request for partnership . Some institutions choose to use a notification service in order to raise the competition for the chosen opportunity . These systems can either be direct from their e-tendering software , or as a re-packaged notification from an external system . During this step direct contact may be made with the suppliers . References for product / service quality are consulted , and any requirements for follow - up services including installation , maintenance , and warranty are investigated . Samples of the product / service being considered may be examined , or trials undertaken . Organizations should do a risk assessment , total cost of ownership analysis and best value assessment before selecting the final suppliers / solution . Negotiations and contracting : Negotiations are undertaken that often include price , availability , customization , and delivery schedules . The details are outlined in a purchase order or more formal contract . Logistics and performance management : Supplier preparation , expediting , shipment , delivery , and payment for the product / service are completed , based on contract terms . Installation and training may also be included . An organization should evaluate the performance of the product / service as they are consumed . A supplier scorecard is a popular tool for this purpose . When the product / service has been consumed or disposed of , the contract expires , or the product or service is to be re-ordered , the organization should review their experience with the product / service . If the product / service is to be re-ordered , the company determines whether to consider other suppliers or to continue with the same supplier . Supplier management and liaison : Organizations that have more strategic goods or services that require ongoing interfaces with a supplier will use a supplier relationship management process . Strategic outsourcing relationships should set up formal governance processes .