Jump up ^ The First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution explicitly forbids the federal government from enacting any law respecting a religious establishment , and thus forbids either designating an official church for the United States , or interfering with State and local official churches -- which were common when the First Amendment was enacted . It did not prevent state governments from establishing official churches . Connecticut continued to do so until it replaced its colonial Charter with the Connecticut Constitution of 1818 ; Massachusetts retained an establishment of religion in general until 1833 . As of 2010 , Article III of the Massachusetts constitution still provided , `` ... the legislature shall , from time to time , authorize and require , the several towns , parishes , precincts , and other bodies politic , or religious societies , to make suitable provision , at their own expense , for the institution of the public worship of God , and for the support and maintenance of public Protestant teachers of piety , religion and morality , in all cases where such provision shall not be made voluntarily . '' The Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution , ratified in 1868 , makes no mention of religious establishment , but forbids the states to `` abridge the privileges or immunities '' of U.S. citizens , or to `` deprive any person of life , liberty , or property , without due process of law '' . In the 1947 case of Everson v. Board of Education , the United States Supreme Court held that this later provision incorporates the First Amendment 's Establishment Clause as applying to the States , and thereby prohibits state and local religious establishments . The exact boundaries of this prohibition are still disputed , and are a frequent source of cases before the U.S. Supreme Court -- especially as the Court must now balance , on a state level , the First Amendment prohibitions on government establishment of official religions with the First Amendment prohibitions on government interference with the free exercise of religion . See school prayer for such a controversy in contemporary American politics . All current State constitutions do mention a Creator , but include guarantees of religious liberty parallel to the First Amendment . The constitutions of eight states ( Arkansas , Maryland , Massachusetts , North Carolina , Pennsylvania , South Carolina , Tennessee , and Texas ) also contain clauses that prohibit atheists from holding public office . However , these clauses were held by the U.S. Supreme Court to be unenforceable in the 1961 case of Torcaso v. Watkins , where the court ruled unanimously that such clauses constituted a religious test incompatible with the religious test prohibition in Article 6 Section 3 of the United States Constitution . The Church of Hawaii was the state church of Hawaii from 1862 -- 1893 .