In aqueous solution , the alkali metal ions form aqua ions of the formula ( M ( H O ) ) , where n is the solvation number . Their coordination numbers and shapes agree well with those expected from their ionic radii . In aqueous solution the water molecules directly attached to the metal ion are said to belong to the first coordination sphere , also known as the first , or primary , solvation shell . The bond between a water molecule and the metal ion is a dative covalent bond , with the oxygen atom donating both electrons to the bond . Each coordinated water molecule may be attached by hydrogen bonds to other water molecules . The latter are said to reside in the second coordination sphere . However , for the alkali metal cations , the second coordination sphere is not well - defined as the + 1 charge on the cation is not high enough to polarise the water molecules in the primary solvation shell enough for them to form strong hydrogen bonds with those in the second coordination sphere , producing a more stable entity . The solvation number for Li has been experimentally determined to be 4 , forming the tetrahedral ( Li ( H O ) ) : while solvation numbers of 3 to 6 have been found for lithium aqua ions , solvation numbers less than 4 may be the result of the formation of contact ion pairs , and the higher solvation numbers may be interpreted in terms of water molecules that approach ( Li ( H O ) ) through a face of the tetrahedron , though molecular dynamic simulations may indicate the existence of an octahedral hexaaqua ion . There are also probably six water molecules in the primary solvation sphere of the sodium ion , forming the octahedral ( Na ( H O ) ) ion . While it was previously thought that the heavier alkali metals also formed octahedral hexaaqua ions , it has since been found that potassium and rubidium probably form the ( K ( H O ) ) and ( Rb ( H O ) ) ions , which have the square antiprismatic structure , and that caesium forms the 12 - coordinate ( Cs ( H O ) ) ion .