The Stolen Generation , refers to children of Aboriginal Australians and Torres Strait Islander ( AATSI ) descent , who were removed from their families by the Australian Federal and State government agencies and church missions , under acts of their respective parliaments between approximately 1869 and 1969 . The Beat Generation , refers to a popular American cultural movement that most social scholars say laid the foundation of the pro-active American counterculture of the 1960s . It consisted of Americans born between the two world wars who came of age in the rise of the automobile era , and the surrounding accessibility they brought to the culturally diverse , yet geographically broad and separated nation . Generation Jones is a term coined by Jonathan Pontell to describe the cohort of people born between 1954 and 1965 . The term is used primarily in English - speaking countries . Pontell defined Generation Jones as referring to the second half of the post -- World War II baby boom The term also includes first - wave Generation X . MTV Generation , a term referring to the adolescents and young adults of the 1980s and early 1990s who were heavily influenced by the MTV television channel . It is often used synonymously with Generation X . In Europe , a variety of terms have emerged in different countries particularly hard hit following the financial crisis of 2007 -- 2008 to designate young people with limited employment and career prospects . The Generation of 500 is a term popularized by the Greek mass media and refers to educated Greek twixters of urban centers who generally fail to establish a career . Young adults are usually forced into underemployment in temporary and occasional jobs , unrelated to their educational background , and receive the minimum allowable base salary of € 500 . This generation evolved in circumstances leading to the Greek debt crisis and participated in the 2010 -- 2011 Greek protests . In Spain , they are referred to as the mileurista ( for € 1,000 ) , in France `` The Precarious Generation '' , and in Italy also the generation of 1,000 euros . In Portugal , they are also called the generation of 500 euros . Oregon Trail Generation , Xennials and Generation Catalano are terms used to describe individuals born during Generation X / Millennial cusp years , typically late 1970s to early 1980s .